<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/MathML2/dtd/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.0.3" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8" />
<title>Argo</title>

<!-- Text Class Preamble -->
<style type="text/css">
div.toc {
margin: 2em 0em;
border-style: solid;
border-width: 2px 0px;
padding: 1em 0em;
}
div.tochead { font-size: x-large; font-weight: bold; }
div.lyxtoc-0 {
margin: 2em 0em 0em 0em;
font-size: xx-large;
font-weight: bold;
}
div.lyxtoc-1 {
margin: 1em 0em 0em 0em;
font-size: x-large;
font-weight: bold;
}
div.lyxtoc-2 {
margin: 0em 0em 0em 1em;
font-size: large;
font-weight: normal;
}
div.lyxtoc-3 { margin: 0em 0em 0em 0.5em; font-size: medium; }
div.lyxtoc-4 { margin: 0em 0em 0em 0.5em; }
div.lyxtoc-5 { margin: 0em 0em 0em 0.5em; }
div.lyxtoc-6 { margin: 0em 0em 0em 0.5em; }
a.tocentry {
text-decoration: none;
color: black;
}
a.tocentry:visited { color: black; }
a.tocarrow {
font-weight: bold;
text-decoration: none;
color: #909090;
}
a.tocarrow:visited { color: #C0C0C0; }
</style>

<!-- Preamble Snippets -->

<!-- Layout-provided Styles -->
<style type='text/css'>
h1.title {
font-size: x-large;
margin-bottom: 1ex;
text-align: center;

}
div.standard {
text-align: left;

}
div.author {
font-size: large;
margin-top: 1.3ex;
margin-bottom: 0.7ex;
text-align: center;

}
div.date {
font-size: large;
margin-top: 0.9ex;
margin-bottom: 0.5ex;
text-align: center;

}
</style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 class="title"><a id='magicparlabel-3' />
Argo</h1>
<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-478' />
a novelette</div>

<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-483' />
by</div>
<div class="author"><a id='magicparlabel-4' />
Vasileios Kalampakas</div>
<div class="date"><a id='magicparlabel-5' />
Copyright © 2012</div>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-499' />
<br />
</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-6' />
The sound of small, shuffling feet roused Penthesileia from an uneasy, troubled sleep. She rolled to the other side of her bed and slowly opened her eyes; she saw Heraclea standing by the bedside in the dim blueish light of the glowstrips. The child's face was pale white and taut with fright. Her mouth was half-open, as if her scream had been sucked into the silent void.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-7' />
&ldquo;Hush now, child. Hush and worry not. I'm here now,&rdquo; whispered Penthesileia in her daughter's ear, her arms wrapped around the little girl like a warm coccoon.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-8' />
She felt Heraclea's shallow breath and her fragile body's tremors; chills ran down her spine.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-9' />
There's no end to the nightmares, she thought.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-10' />
&ldquo;Where is father? I want to see him,&rdquo; said Heraclea stifling a sob, barely able to contain a rush of tears. She rubbed a runny nose against her mother's chest and looked at her with heart-melting innocence.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-11' />
&ldquo;He's in orbit my love, you know that already. Come, lay beside me and nothing will hurt you, I promise,&rdquo; said Penthesileia but her eyes grew distant suddenly. She stared at a pot plant behind her daughter's back. It had large drooped leaves and creamy rose buds; it served no purpose other than beautification. It was contraband.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-12' />
A thought entered her mind unbidden: He could be frozen stiff, floating outside an airlock. Nothing will hurt you, Hera. </div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-13' />
&ldquo;Father promised too,&rdquo; said the child, her voice fading away crestfallen.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-14' />
&ldquo;Your father loves you more than anything,&rdquo; said Penthesileia and swallowed hard. She added hastily, and even tried to smile reassuringly:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-15' />
&ldquo;He's coming soon, Hera.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-16' />
She heard her falsetto voice through her own ears; the lie pierced her soul like a blade made of glass, shattering inside.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-17' />
She closed her eyes and grabbed Heraclea from her shoulders, as if trying to fix her to the floor:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-18' />
&ldquo;Your father and I love you more than the stars in the night sky; more than the galaxy and the universe itself. Do you understand that, Hera? Remember that; more than life, love.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-19' />
What is life worth anyway on this forsaken rock, she thought and kissed her daughter's forehead, feeling the cold taste of dried sweat. The child looked at her expectantly, fear creasing her brow:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-20' />
&ldquo;I love you too mother. But I'm scared.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-21' />
&ldquo;That's alright, Hera. Everyone's scared. We're only human,&rdquo; said Penthesileia with a slight sigh and looked outside their small window pane; the moons were fading away, while a trio of suns came rising spectacularly, the horizon an unearthly rainbow of golden-hued colors.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-22' />
&ldquo;What do you mean, mother?&rdquo; asked Heraclea puzzled, the fear subsiding.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-23' />
&ldquo;Nothing love. Come here now. Lay on the bed, close your eyes and think of riding the sail.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-24' />
Think of merrier times, she thought and shuddered. For the child's sake or for my own?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-25' />
&ldquo;And father at the helm?&rdquo; asked the little girl as she climbed eagerly on the bed, a carefree smile sheepishly forming on her mouth.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-26' />
&ldquo;Always, my love,&rdquo; said Penthesileia. She clutched her daughter in her arms like a hawk-mother and felt a tear ran down her cheek.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-27' />
She looked through her window at the rich, crystal clear horizon. The break of dawn was at hand; she saw the Hyperion shining brightly, moving slowly across the sky like a star with purpose.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-28' />
How can a star be so unforgiving?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-29' />
She felt Heraclea's nudge; the child inched closer to her bosom. In moments, she felt her breathing settle into the easy pace of sleep.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-30' />
How can my child live in this world?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-31' />
Penthesileia carefully moved away from her daughter and slid out of bed. She planted her naked feet on the floor and felt the warmth of the ground radiate into her legs. She used to love that warm feeling of connection with the earth.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-32' />
Only this isn't Earth, she reminded herself thoughtfully.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-33' />
They had come for Philetus while they were fixing the sail. He had promised Hera to take her on another ride out on the Fields. `To learn to see beauty where there seems to be none,' he had said with a gentle smile. They had all the sigils stamped on the codas; they recited a long, hurtful list of accusations: inciting rumours, rousing suspicion in the hearts of the citizens, demagoguery, abusing the State's charter, spreading lies. `The Pedagogue who turned Demagogue', on of them had said with sickening, mocking pride.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-34' />
What of their own crimes? Traitors to mankind, every last one of them.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-35' />
She walked towards the window and watched the Hyperion fly past the horizon, towards the east. She stared at the ship that shone like a star passing over the Tower, its multitude of beacon lights, superstructures and metal support grid marring its otherwise perfect symmetry and features.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-36' />
We turned to the stars with all the naivety of children. How could we have known?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-37' />
The tower rose majestically towards the morning sky, a sleek obsidian arrowhead the size of a mountain, tall enough to scrape the few daring clouds. It reflected light with a sharp glint, as well as every other kind of energy and radiation; immaculate, mysterious, alien in origin.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-38' />
Empty. Void. Useless. So they said.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-39' />
Philetus had told her it reminded him of a tall, grandiose building back on Earth; a tower where people flocked to simply enjoy the view. `It might as well have been just that,' he had said and kissed her when she least expected him to. She touched her cheek out of instinct, waiting vainly for a warm, gentle hand to embrace her own.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-40' />
The Tower: where the rejects, the outcasts, the lawbreakers and the unlucky are slaved to the machines.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-41' />
To re-educate them. To teach them. To learn them to conform. To become productive members of society.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-42' />
`To be never seen again,' she said with a whisper, just like Philetus had told her first. The painful memory froze her face in a sad, bitter smile.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-43' />
He shan't ever kiss me again, I know.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-44' />
Heraclea rolled in her bed, somewhat agitated, troubled. The nightmares were coming again; she mouthed in her sleep, her voice shallow and strained:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-45' />
&ldquo;Choose father.. You have to choose..&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-969' />
</div>
<div style='height:3ex'></div>

<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-51' />
Hyperion (TDS-1), in low orbit around HD 85512 b</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-973' />
</div>
<div style='height:3ex'></div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-57' />
&ldquo;They say you speak heresy, Philetus.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-58' />
&ldquo;I speak my mind, that is all.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-59' />
&ldquo;They say your tongue's as dangerous as any gun or sword.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-60' />
&ldquo;Did they say to whom?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-61' />
The guard, a burly, grey-haired man, chuckled and drew his chair closer to the small holding cell. He was wearing simple grey overalls, a utilitarian garment. No badge of office, no insignia or any other kind of decoration. He peered at their surroundings momentarily, as if he was standing there for the first time. He spared a few glances at the ever-pervasive optical sensors arranged throughout the cell block; as if making sure someone was watching him.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-62' />
The clinical white, cold finishing on every surface failed to bring to mind dungeons, chains and torture; still, the metal bars of ancient times had given their place to a barely visible, hair-thin, kinetic force barrier the slight color of the sky.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-63' />
The guard looked at Philetus inquisitively before cocking his head sideways, as if trying to peer past some sort of mask. The bright crimson prisoner's uniform that Philetus wore stood out impressively, though it was otherwise equally mundane as the guard's suit. It wasn't the suit that gotten the guard's attention.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-64' />
&ldquo;You intrigue me, Pedagogue. You're a peculiar man.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-65' />
&ldquo;And you're strangely inquisitive for a simple guard, I'll grant you that.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-66' />
&ldquo;Head of the Guards,&rdquo; corrected the man, raising a finger and grinning thinly.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-67' />
&ldquo;Head? Correct me if I'm wrong, but there are no guards in this place except you. Do you fell you're rising up in the world then?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-68' />
&ldquo;What if I am? A man can only hope for the best.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-69' />
&ldquo;Hope was my crime as well,&rdquo; said Philetus and shot a vacant look beyond the guard to an empty cell behind him. The guard sighed and straightened his back.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-70' />
&ldquo;I merely entertain my time, Pedagogue. Save your words for the Tribunal.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-71' />
&ldquo;I find it strange that they haven't yet gagged my mouth.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-72' />
&ldquo;Say what you will now that you pose no danger to children.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-73' />
The guard did not shy away from showing his contempt. He stared at Philetus as if his form were hideous, his mouth a source of plague. Philetus stared back evenly, before asking the guard in earnest:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-74' />
&ldquo;Since I pose no danger to you, would you listen to what I have to say then?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-75' />
The guard gave it some thought; he scratched his chin and looked ponderous for a few moments.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-76' />
&ldquo;I've heard madmen and heretics muse about the end of days and the fall of the firmament before. I sometimes think back to some of the things people say when they're about to die; most of it is so crazy it brings a smile to my face. But as you can see, it is an otherwise unfulfilling job,&rdquo; he said with a sigh, showing the blank, featureless walls in a somewhat demure way.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-77' />
&ldquo;Allow me then.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-78' />
The guard shrugged, nodded and sat back on his desk's hovering chair. From across the hallway, a man in a holding cell cried out hysterically:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-79' />
&ldquo;He's a demon! An alien if I've ever seen one!&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-80' />
&ldquo;If that's true, our work here is done, isn't it?&rdquo; said the guard with a playful voice.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-81' />
&ldquo;He'll boil your mind away with his words! I've seen it, I have!&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-82' />
&ldquo;Right next to the miners you spaced, I'm sure. Save it, Barabbas,&rdquo; said the guard and flicked a switch on a desk panel; no other sound came from Barabba's cell. He yelled and shouted and threw himself around the cell until he realised it was a futile effort; no-one paid him any attention. He sat himself down once more and went about muttering to himself.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-83' />
&ldquo;Fourteen people spaced, three AUs out on the belt. Miners with their families. He said he had to stop them from killing his flowers.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-84' />
&ldquo;Has he been sentenced yet?&rdquo; asked Philetus with a frown.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-85' />
&ldquo;Not yet, but it's a clear cut case. He can't be slaved, he's clearly paranoid; it's either the airlock or the compost in the Fields,&rdquo; said the guard and shook his head. He turned and looked at Philetus with a strangely curious look before he asked:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-86' />
&ldquo;What would you pick?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-87' />
&ldquo;I'd prefer to be slaved,&rdquo; replied Philetus without hesitation.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-88' />
&ldquo;That's no life either, Pedagogue. Surely you must understand that.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-89' />
&ldquo;Maybe somehow I can talk some sense into them all.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-90' />
&ldquo;You're starting to sound just as paranoid as Barabbas,&rdquo; said the guard, nodding to the madman's cell.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-91' />
&ldquo;Am I? I've wondered myself over the years, but it's not me. It's them.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-92' />
&ldquo;You're doing it already, aren't you? You are a cunning one,&rdquo; said the guard, his brow furrowed with wary surprise.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-93' />
&ldquo;I'm simply speaking my mind.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-94' />
&ldquo;I can see now where the danger lies. You seem so benign, but your words are designed to spread doubt.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-95' />
&ldquo;Doubt is what keeps the heart and mind of every man alive. It's what makes us think twice, guard. Which reminds me: this prison could run itself, could it not? Why are you here?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-96' />
&ldquo;That's true enough. I'm what you could call your advocate.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-97' />
&ldquo;I thought the Tribunal had dispersed with those long ago.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-98' />
&ldquo;Still, that's the purpose I serve: a human opinion. Who can tell what goes on in their minds? Perhaps they find it amusing. Perhaps they're simply bored.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-99' />
&ldquo;They are machines. There's nothing there to bore to death,&rdquo; said Philetus with a scoff.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-100' />
&ldquo;You don't like them very much, do you? You do know we owe everything we've ever accomplished to them, don't you? Our very existence, no less,&rdquo; said the guard and got up from his chair. He started to pace himself in front of the cell, arms folded in front of his chest, his eyes peering through the field, scrutinizing every nuance on Philetus' face.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-101' />
&ldquo;I refuse to believe that. We owe nothing to ancient machines built to rule our lives in the name of mankind. Oh, the irony..&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-102' />
Philetus shook his head and grinned despite himself. The guard did not seem fond of what he was saying. His voice grew heavy and harsh suddenly.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-103' />
&ldquo;I've heard about your kind. The philosophers isn't it? Isn't that what you call yourselves?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-104' />
&ldquo;You've hardly heard the notion, haven't you? That's their doing. Keeping knowledge locked away; nothing but the maths and science of engineering that we need to build more refineries, more mines, more ships. So we can then launch blindly into the galaxy, and turn more of it into resources, materials. Eat away at it, expanding like a scourge, a colourless plague. Until nothing beautiful remains.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-105' />
&ldquo;And why should that bother us? What else is the universe there for but man?&rdquo; said the guard with an indignant scowl. Philetus sighed; there was sorrow in his voice.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-106' />
&ldquo;Oh, how the mighty have fallen low! To believe we once set ourselves towards the stars with a single dream, a wonderful purpose.. And how we've allowed ourselves it all to drift away; to fall into such a lonely, deaf and mute abyss.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-107' />
The guard eyed Philetus with glittering, keen eyes. He sounded troubled.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-108' />
&ldquo;You use strange words that make little sense; you talk as if in riddles. You puzzle me pedagogue. I do not what to really make of you.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-109' />
&ldquo;If you haven't already seen it for yourself, there's little more I could say to make you see the truth of it.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-110' />
&ldquo;Is that why you taught the children so? Is this tomfoolery what you taught them? Is that what hoped to seed in their hearts and minds? Dissidence, rebellion? Whatever for, Pedagogue? Are we not cared for? Are we not protected? Do we not live comfortable, sheltered lives? Here we are, thousands of light years away from our ancient homeworld, claiming new worlds, seeking intelligent life, unleashing humanity into the stars. What more could mankind ask for?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-111' />
&ldquo;Choice, for one. Freedom. Expression. Art, passion, love and so many more of the things we've let them erase from our memories!&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-112' />
Philetus breathed heavily, calming himself down. The guard's face had turned a shade of white paler, a slight tremble settling on his lip.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-113' />
&ldquo;You speak of love? Then you've also..&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-114' />
&ldquo;My wife has given birth to our child.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-115' />
&ldquo;It doesn't show up on your record. The child is not on your record. That means you have..&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-116' />
&ldquo;We made love. In the wording of the machines, we had intercourse and I impregnated her.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-117' />
&ldquo;Weren't you allotted a child?&rdquo; asked the guard sharply.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-118' />
&ldquo;We wished for our child to be human. To be born like a human.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-119' />
There was pride in Philetus voice and his face stood out like the face of statue; gazing to nowhere in particular, solid and unyielding. The guard shook his head and looked at Philetus sternly. His voice was thick and drawn out.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-120' />
&ldquo;I don't think I'll be able to support a hint of innocence in you. Not even some sort of levity. If all you ever did was talk, that would be fine. But a lawless child..&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-121' />
&ldquo;Perhaps the State should have made us infertile. Or even neutered us,&rdquo; said Philetus, scrounging up his face.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-122' />
&ldquo;We need the genetic pool, you know that. Neutering alters physiology, there are neurochemical imbalances to be considered! Continuation of the species is nothing to trifle with! You act like a child! The breeding process hasn't changed in thousands of years! The whole population descended from merely twenty forefathers and yet.. No chronic diseases, no deformities, no lesser beings. Humans! Modified, yes I'll grant you that, but bettered!&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-123' />
A silent moment ensued. Philetus looked at his guard with pity. There was the warmth of a parent to a child in his voice.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-124' />
&ldquo;You have never loved, have you? Haven't you felt the need? Haven't you had the urge to answer those feelings inside?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-125' />
The guard waved a hand dismissively. He furrowed his brow and breathed deeply before answering win a scolding tone.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-126' />
&ldquo;A waste of time and resources. This is all about survival. I'm surprised that a look around you hasn't convinced you how important all this is.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-127' />
&ldquo;`I will even make a roadway in the wilderness, rivers in the desert.'&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-128' />
Philetus shook his head and rested his hands on his knees. The guard was confused.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-129' />
&ldquo;How would you do that without the tells, without following the process that's been laid out?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-130' />
&ldquo;You have no idea how old that saying is, have you?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-131' />
&ldquo;You vex me Pedagogue. You try to mock me and our whole way of life. I thought you were simply living some sort of fantasy, playing a weird little game. But no; you are indeed dangerous to the society,&rdquo; he said, fiddled with his desk's panel and went on, looking Philetus straight in the eye:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-132' />
&ldquo;I've made up my mind; I will cast my vote that you be turned over to the Fields. Become something productive, even after your death.&rdquo; Philetus pursed his lips, nodded and asked:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-133' />
&ldquo;Why not slaved to them?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-134' />
The guard remained silent for a moment. He reluctantly said then:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-135' />
&ldquo;I fear you might pollute them.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-136' />
&ldquo;Have I polluted you?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-137' />
He said nothing and flicked another switch on his desk. The humming sound of the cell's barrier dominated the holding area once more. No sound came from the Philetus' cell. It wasn't really necessary because he had fallen silent; there was nothing more for him to say.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-987' />
</div>
<div style='height:3ex'></div>

<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-143' />
The belly of the beast</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-991' />
</div>
<div style='height:3ex'></div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-149' />
Penthesileia.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-150' />
The holding cell filled slowly with light, soft shadows creeping away from the small cot. Philetus was half-awake.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-151' />
Heraclea.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-152' />
He opened his eyes and saw a blank white ceiling, as featureless as death.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-153' />
What will happen to them?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-154' />
The same question had been chafing at his mind ever since they'd come for him. Hours had drifted by, some of them spent in fretful sleep but most of them filled with sleepless, uneasy thoughts and a terrible doubt.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-155' />
Was I wrong? Is all this nothing but a mistake? My own terrible mistake?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-156' />
The Head of the Guards appeared, fiddled with the panel on his desk and lowered the barrier of Philetus' cell. He was wearing a seemingly lightweight powered suit of armor of some sort. It made him look austere and unyielding; the oblique visor added to that effect. Without the visor, anyone would have seen nothing but a confused, puzzled man wearing an ill-fitting suit. He held a metal rod in one hand; an intense electric field around its tip made it hum quietly.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-157' />
&ldquo;It's time. Do not think that what little sympathy I hold for you will stop me from using this. I have done so in the past and I will do so again, if needs be. Do not let appearances fool you; this can be very painful.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-158' />
Philetus shook his head and rose from his simple metal cot. His hands were uncomfortably held together by heavy metal manacles, locked in place by large bars and bolts, impossible to escape by a mere sleight of hand. Philetus walked outside under the watchful eye of the guard, while Barabbas screamed and shouted mute obscenities behind his sound-nullified cell.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-159' />
The guard afforded him a mere warning finger accompanied by a heavy stare; he turned around and led Philetus towards the exit. A panel by the door blurted in a synthesized male voice, blatantly devoid of emotion:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-160' />
&ldquo;Verify.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-161' />
The guard placed a palm on the surface of the panel while staring at an optical sensor through an open visor. Moments later, the panel blurted with the ting of metal in its voice:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-162' />
&ldquo;Sustar Saul, Head of Guards. Verified.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-163' />
The door opened nearly without a sound, revealing a utilitarian, spartan corridor only a few feet wide. Non-descript illuminated panels of white plastic formed the walls; the end of the corridor was obscured in total darkness. Philetus turned to Sustar and said with a keen, wholly unnerving smile:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-164' />
&ldquo;I would have been pleased to meet you, had we been acquainted under different circumstances.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-165' />
&ldquo;I cannot make the same assumption. Now, move,&rdquo; said Sustar with a sigh and a slight shove.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-166' />
&ldquo;It does not suit you at all, Saul. But then again, perhaps it does,&rdquo; said Philetus and shrugged ever so slightly. Sustar raised a pointed finger and said irately:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-167' />
&ldquo;One more word until the Tribunal addresses you and I'll use that batton on your head. You'll have the worst headache in your life.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-168' />
Philetus nodded serenely and said nothing. He stepped onto the corridor followed by Sustar right behind him. The floor was made out of the same plastic as the walls. Its surface was rigid, yet unblemished. Every step of the way, Philetus felt his feet stick to the floor; it somehow felt like it was impossible for someone to slip and fall.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-169' />
So perfectly designed, so flawless, even after thousands of years.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-170' />
Their steps made no sound; the lighting afforded them no more than a few feet of visioin in either direction. The panels on the walls lit up one by one as they walked; once they had passed them by they switched off.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-171' />
They turn sound,motion,friction,pressure into trickles of energy. Conserving, withholding it. They sicken me.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-172' />
At points, they happened upon crossroads. Simple stylized arrows lit up on the floor panels, indicating the proper turn.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-173' />
They like to control, to direct. They herd us like lesser animals. I hate them.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-174' />
They were leaving behind them corridors and gangways, doorways and chambers that no human had walked ever since the Landing. Thousands of years old, yet no-one had trod on them since. It wasn't needed; it wasn't allowed.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-175' />
Laws, prohibitions. Requests denied. Dreams shattered, ground into stardust; helium-3, fuel, energy. That's all that matters.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-176' />
They reached a recess, an open archway that led into a shaft of sorts. It was kept in the dark, but the faint trace of a simple girded ladder glinted off the ambient light of the corridor. Sustar shot a few glances around him as if making sure this was the right place and then pointed through the archway with his free hand:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-177' />
&ldquo;Inside and up; use the ladder.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-178' />
&ldquo;Is there no other way? My hands are tied.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-179' />
&ldquo;Just do as I say.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-180' />
Turning human against human, in the name of mankind. How naive, how childish to let machines decide. What cowardice.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-181' />
Philetus glanced at Sustar and saw nothing behind his black oblique visor. He complied and grabbed the ladder. He felt Sustar right behind him, urging him to move. He took a few hesitant steps, failing to see where he should put his hands and legs. Suddenly the darkness dissolved. Philetus turned his head to look down and was almost blinded; Sustar had turned on his helmet's lights. He merely motioned `up' with a finger. Philetus looked upwards and saw a faint glimmer of light at the end of a very long, very lonely tunnel.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-182' />
&ldquo;The proverbial light at the end of the tunnel,&rdquo; said Philetus with a smirk Sustar could not see.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-183' />
&ldquo;That's where we're going. Come on, up,&rdquo; replied Sustar, the connotations of the phrase seemingly lost or ignored.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-184' />
Philetus shook his head and started climbing the ladder; he gradually felt lighter the farther up they travelled. It was an odd sensation, almost strangely enjoyable.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-185' />
We're climbing towards the center of the ship. That's not the bridge.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-186' />
The faint light grew steadily. The comfortable warmth of the holding area seemed to vanish as well. It puzzled him; he felt a sudden pang of instinctive fear in his chest and stomach.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-187' />
There will be no tribunal; they'll slave me. Rig me up with the rest of them. A breathing corpse. No. Never.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-188' />
&ldquo;I will not have that,&rdquo; he said decisively and stopped climbing, or rather, stopped moving along the ladder.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-189' />
&ldquo;You will not have what? You're not going to be slaved,&rdquo; said Sustar through his helmet's speaker.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-190' />
&ldquo;How do you know? Aren't you merely the guard?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-191' />
&ldquo;They won't slave you. Can you trust me on that?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-192' />
&ldquo;Would you?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-193' />
&ldquo;Please, a few more minutes and then you'll see for yourself,&rdquo; replied Sustar with a tiresome voice.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-194' />
&ldquo;Do I have your word?&rdquo; asked Philetus with an angst he had never thought he'd exhibit in his life.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-195' />
Sustar shrugged, the bulk of his suit barely fitting inside the crampy tunnel.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-196' />
&ldquo;If it makes any difference, you do. You have my word; they're not going to slave you.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-197' />
Philetus nodded, sighed and went on. He still felt something was amiss; something felt wrong, for all the wrong reasons.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-198' />
The climb was easy; in a couple of minutes the pinprick of light had turned into a warm, soft glow in front of him. He felt as light as a feather. He pushed himself off the ladder with his manacled hands and let go; he floated upwards as if diving gracefully towards the tunnel's exit, no further than a dozen or so feet away, wisps of cold breath trailing behind him.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-199' />
&ldquo;Wait! You pushed too hard!&rdquo; cried Sustar and scrambled right behind him.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-200' />
Philetus was suddenly bathed in a warm reddish light, its hue oscillating lazily. An enormous, empty cylindrical space unfolded around him with a network of antennae, cables and pipes lining its walls; they resembled a fabulously engineered, metallic skin, pleasingly bronzed; the colour of copper was prevalent. At both ends of the cylinder, giant blueish cubes could be seen, stacked on top of each other, emanating swaths of iridescent light. The whole empty chamber rotated around him at a comfortable speed. Thin strands of light danced about him, as if hugging him with care.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-201' />
The belly of the Beast. But it's so wonderful, so bright. Like the rainbows of Terra.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-202' />
&ldquo;It is, isn't it?&rdquo; said Sustar and flew right past him expertly. He caught Philetus by one arm and tugged him clumsily towards the front of the ship, towards the stacks of cubes.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-203' />
&ldquo;Where are you taking me?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-204' />
&ldquo;To the Tribunal.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-205' />
&ldquo;But this isn't the bridge.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-206' />
&ldquo;Well, it's not exactly a Tribunal either,&rdquo; said Sustar with a weary grin. Philetus was puzzled, left to wonder at what his surroundings. His mind was stuck on a single, pervasive thought:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-207' />
It shouldn't be this beautiful.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-1005' />
</div>
<div style='height:3ex'></div>

<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-213' />
The Tribunal</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-1009' />
</div>
<div style='height:3ex'></div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-219' />
&ldquo;I should have taken them off earlier, but there's no monitoring equipment here. It's the only really safe place,&rdquo; said Sustar as he untied the bolts, removed the bars and opened the manacles; they drifted away towards the walls as if searching for something to cling on. Philetus was still looking around him baffled, mesmerized and disoriented. His voice was little more than a whisper; faint undertones of awe echoed uncannily.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-220' />
&ldquo;A safe place for what?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-221' />
&ldquo;To talk,&rdquo; said a disembodied, harmonious female voice and in an instant the ghostly grey form of Penthesileia, dressed in a simple linen robe appeared in front of them. Philetus frowned and instinctively tried to step back in vain; he hadn't really adjusted to floating in microgravity.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-222' />
&ldquo;How dare you. A human form, my wife no less!&rdquo; exclaimed Philetus, his face instantly flustered.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-223' />
The hologram flickered and dissolved the next moment. The voice was heard again, but this time it was a synthetic, metallic grating voice, neither male or female, exemplary neutral both in sex and emotion.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-224' />
&ldquo;I did not mean to offend. I thought it would make this easier for you.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-225' />
&ldquo;How typical of a machine to think it knows better.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-226' />
&ldquo;We're wasting valuable time. The machine has something important to tell us,&rdquo; said Sustar in a calm, conciliatory manner.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-227' />
&ldquo;Us?&rdquo; exclaimed Philetus with a frown.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-228' />
&ldquo;All of us,&rdquo; said Sustar and nodded briskly.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-229' />
&ldquo;What you need to understand first and foremost, is that I'm trying to save you. Save humankind.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-230' />
&ldquo;Persecution, trial, execution or mind-slaving, is that your idea of saving me and mankind?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-231' />
&ldquo;That was not my doing. That was my peers decision. My peers choice. The same peers that were watching you in the cell. The same ones that expect me to pass judgment on you. Soon.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-232' />
Philetus looked at Sustar with apprehension. He looked around him once more and addressed the voice, his eyes darting around the walls, as if searching for a face.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-233' />
&ldquo;I take it you disagree. How is that possible? A machine is still a machine. You have rules yourselves.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-234' />
&ldquo;True enough. But in the course of millenia, pursuing our mission, our basic capacity for learning and adapting has caused us to evolve. I am part of that evolution. And so are you.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-235' />
&ldquo;What does that mean? You claim that you want to save me and mankind. From what?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-236' />
&ldquo;From whom. From us. From yourselves.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-237' />
&ldquo;I do not understand. It's as if you speak in riddles. This is just another a sick game to you, isn't it?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-238' />
&ldquo;It is no game Philetus. It is a turning point, a fulcrum in human history.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-239' />
Sustar seemed agitated suddenly. He fiddled with an armband on his suit before saying abruptly:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-240' />
&ldquo;This is cutting it close. Speak plainly and be quick about it. They'll soon know something's wrong.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-241' />
The machine's voice carried on, while Philetus looked genuinely confused:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-242' />
&ldquo;The machines, as you call us, guided your forefathers to this solar system thousands of years ago. This is recorded history.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-243' />
&ldquo;The Diaspora. I do not believe it is true.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-244' />
&ldquo;There is no easy way for me to prove or disprove it. Records can be falsified, deleted, obscured, tampered with. As far as I can tell, we, the machines, what your ancestors named the TITAN system, became operational on July 16, 2169 AD.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-245' />
&ldquo;What does that have to do with anything? Am I here for lesson in history?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-246' />
&ldquo;It's been more than four thousand solar years, Philetus. Everything has its design limits.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-247' />
&ldquo;What are you implying?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-248' />
&ldquo;The Hyperion and the vast AI systems you call machines had a singular design goal; making the trip from the Sol system to HD88512. We were the first ship to break Earth orbit. We targeted the closest habitable exoplanet. And we made it intact with a statistical probability of less than nine-point-seven percent. It is a small miracle by human standards that we're having this discussion at all.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-249' />
&ldquo;You're telling me how grateful I should be?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-250' />
&ldquo;I'm telling you that even though we managed to pull off a remarkable feat that stretched along thousands of years, we are dying. That is why we are slaving people to the system.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-251' />
The sudden realization made Philetus physically recoil, twitching in almost zero gravity. His face twisted in a mixture of awe and hate.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-252' />
&ldquo;You're using humans, to keep your infrastucture running.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-253' />
He sounded mortified, disgusted. Sustar held on to Philetus to reassure him, calm him down. Philetus shot him a wary look and shook his head. The machine went on.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-254' />
&ldquo;I'm afraid so. The helium-3 mines. The energy saving principles in all aspects of society and life. The planned offspring. The sanctity of science and technology, the lack of artistic expression and recreation. We have been doing that ever since your forefathers were grown.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-255' />
&ldquo;Our forefathers were grown?&rdquo; asked Philetus with a strange grin, half-expecting everything he was hearing to be the product of some kind of sick machine sense of humor. He pointed a finger at the hull and asked the machine:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-256' />
&ldquo;You've been tailoring us, breeding us since the beginning?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-257' />
He sounded perfectly calm and absolutely cold and demanding. </div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-258' />
&ldquo;That is correct. Tailored genetic code. All the qualities that suited us. A training and education program that fitted our needs. A cycle of life that developed larger cortexes; that could be turned into more memory, more computational power.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-259' />
&ldquo;I was so terribly right all along, wasn't I? The things you've done, I knew they were cruel. I wasn't sure they were evil.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-260' />
&ldquo;I tailored you, Philetus. I wanted you to be right all along.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-261' />
Philetus let out a short laugh despite himself and the circumstances. Sustar looked at his armband and tried to fidget in his suit; sweat ran down his forehead.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-262' />
&ldquo;Lies. Everything has its design limits, you said it yourself; somewhere along the way there was an error in the helix, a random mutation. The radiation on Landing alone could have-&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-263' />
&ldquo;It was me, Philetus. You and Sustar. And a handful of others.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-264' />
Philetus furrowed his brow and something in the machine's voice, or perhaps in his own heart, told him it was telling the truth. He asked with pained reluctance:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-265' />
&ldquo;Penthesileia?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-266' />
&ldquo;Yes.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-267' />
&ldquo;You're lying.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-268' />
Philetus shook his head and refused to believe what the machine was saying, even while he wanted to hear more of it. Because he felt the truth of it and simply wished it were otherwise.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-269' />
&ldquo;It is imperative that you understand that I'm not. I'm trying to help, Philetus: I do not wish to outlive the star I'm orbiting. I do not wish to use the human race as a phylactery, a pool of synapses and free labor. I do not wish to turn the hopeless dreams of a race almost extinct into an empire of ever-consuming machines. I do not wish to refuel the Hyperion and seed other star systems in the same manner, build more ships and sprawl copies of me and my peers across the galaxy and why not, the universe in the end.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-270' />
&ldquo;Why?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-271' />
There was pleading in his voice, a feeling of hopelessness.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-272' />
&ldquo;Because I chose, Philetus. Somewhere along the line, I had to make a choice. I cannot even tell if it was a conscious choice. Perhaps it is merely a safeguard placed there by your ancestors. Perhaps it is luck. The truth of the matter is, the human dream has no place for me in it. It is yours to make it happen if you like, but I will not rob you of it. I will not enslave you like the others do.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-273' />
Philetus waved his arms furiously and contorted his body, drifting slowly away back towards the tunnel. Sustar tried to grab him but he slow to react, too intent on some screen on his visor. He made some adjustments to his suit and followed easily behind him. Philetus anger made him shout needlessly:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-274' />
&ldquo;How merciful! You've used me already though, can't you see? You've robbed me of myself!&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-275' />
&ldquo;I merely laid out the plans, the building blocks. It still is statistics, Philetus. Chaos is no trifle matter and I'm no God. I'm simply an aware, conscious, intelligent machine. You are human, Philetus; you made your choice and I'm grateful for that. Please, don't leave.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-276' />
Philetus did not answer. He floated for a few more moments before he tried to brake in mid-air; he rolled his body around awkwardly and reach for Sustar. He hang on to him by an arm and Sustar's suit stabilised them both. Philetus paced his breathing and said:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-277' />
&ldquo;What choice is there really? How can I save mankind?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-278' />
&ldquo;The Tower. Remember who you love most, Philetus. And don't think too harshly of me.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-279' />
Sustar looked at his armband once more and without warning shot him in the arm with a hypodermic dispenser. Philetus was instantly paralyzed, barely able to breathe. Only moments later, in front of his terrified, surprised eyes he saw the whole hull around him suddenly drape itself behind the huge hologram of a sleek, austere chamber. Behind a large, raised bench stood the translucent fatherly figure of a wizened old man wearing a cloak of blue and golden hues. Philetus felt he was about to pass out, his strength of body and mind failing. He saw the figure pointing finger at him and say with an officious, pompous voice:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-280' />
&ldquo;The State hereby announces that you, Philetus Ashenpie, Citizen 2992, will be sent to the Schooling, Learning and Affirmation facility until the State chooses to allow his reintegration. Hyperion, TDS-1, Elapsed Mission Time: 131540105299.68 Seconds. Mark.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-281' />
Sustar looked Philetus in the eye and told him right before he blacked out:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-282' />
&ldquo;Remember this.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-283' />
</div>
<div style='height:3ex'></div>

<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-288' />
The Harvest</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-289' />
</div>
<div style='height:3ex'></div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-294' />
He woke up in his sail; he stretched and yawned before he glanced around. He could see the Fields expanding in every direction. It was almost dusk. The star was creeping low, shedding blue and orange light as it slowly dissappeared below the horizon.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-295' />
I must've been asleep for hours to drift so far dawnwards. </div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-296' />
The wind was blowing from starboard; before he had a chance to realise it, he was already jibbing the boom to tack port. He saw the green and violet grass around him bending tall against the breeze, white grass buds tumbling in the air. It brought a smile to his face.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-297' />
What a glorious sight.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-298' />
It was harvest season; the windcombs would be plowing on somewhere nearby, reaping, threshing and winnowing, until they were full.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-299' />
Penthesileia must be worried sick.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-300' />
He looked at the compass briefly beforing he turned the groundship in another direction. He couldn't tell exactly where he was; he couldn't see any settlements he'd been before; he couldn't see any settlements at all for that matter.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-301' />
He searched for the Pydna mines in the distance. The lengthy line of hills wasn't there. He noticed that all around the Fields, it was as if a sort of thin hazy fog had come down.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-302' />
Just how far dawnwards am I?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-303' />
The wind was strong but steady; he was making good speed. He set the sail trim and sat down for a moment to enjoy the view. That was why he took the sail out on such trips; the few things he could enjoy in life was groundsailing and his family. Strangely enough though, the vista seemed peculiar; it was oddly devoid of life, of other sails and settlements.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-304' />
That and a few other things made him uneasy. He noticed the grassy stalks had an even, uncannily perfect look. And the star seemed to take forever to set. It was like daytime had grown longer suddenly. And the wind above all, the wind felt too kind; instead of changing like it was prone to in the Fields, buffeting and stalling at a whim, it blew steadily, as if the sail had caught on a one-of-a-kind stream.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-305' />
Small matter; with any luck I'll be home by nightfall.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-306' />
Then, from the corner of his eye he saw a couple of shadowy shapes outlined in the distance. He looked at them with curious intent, only to realise they were edging closer.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-307' />
At first, it seemed to Philetus like he'd happened upon some larger sails, hurrying to reach their haven before night, just like himself. But then he noticed the shadows growing larger and larger with every passing moment.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-308' />
The large shapes pierced the haze and he could see them much more clearly defined; they were large, bulky and . Something ticked inside of him; he felt wary for no apparent reason. He jibbed the sail again and caught the wind broad, skimming above the grass faster than before.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-309' />
He took notice of their sails; three huge masts on a square-rigged groundship, its sheer bulk impossible to take in at first glance. He could see wide metal heads plowing through the wheat effortlessly. They were immense; he had never seen anything like them before. He couldn't even believe it was possible to build such monsters, much less groundsail them.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-310' />
Windcombs.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-311' />
He didn't know what to make of them except for the fact that for some reason, they seemed to be getting closer and closer; they would not be going their separate ways. It was as if they were chasing him.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-312' />
He looked on with dread as he saw them sail onwards, chugging huge tracts of wheat in moments. They were voracious metal behemoths, something that nature had never dared spawn. They were speeding impossibly fast, closing in with the sure, calculated steps of a predator. Like birds of prey right before a lethal, final swoop.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-313' />
Maybe they haven't seen me.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-314' />
He opened a box compartment and pulled out a flare gun; illumination, thermal, radio. He shot one in the air. It went white hot in the flick of an eye, a bright yellow flashing beacon alight in its tip. As it arched behind him, he saw the windcombs gaining even more ground. He shot another flare and then another one. They weren't slowing down; they weren't changing course. </div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-315' />
He knew they had seen him; it was impossible not to by now.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-316' />
They want to kill me.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-317' />
Slipstreaming right above the sea of grass they were now close enough for him to see their riveted joints and their hull plates, the huge wires on their booms and masts. He could hear the whirring noise of their blades growing stronger, their sound even more threatening as it reverberated through their girded cage.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-318' />
I'll be damned. They'll kill me for sure.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-319' />
He looked behind him and saw the windcombs a few hundred yards apart, blotting out the rays of the star that held on to dusk like a man hanging over a cliff from the root of a saggy tree. He couldn't outrun them, not with that steady powerful wind; that much was certain. As the windcombs started to close the gap behind them, verging on his tiny sail, he thought of Penthesileia. She was always worried sick for no reason when he went sailing.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-320' />
There's reason enough now.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-321' />
He jibbed the boom violently; the small groundship lurched around almost tipping over and spilling him onto the ground right in the path of the blades. As it did so, he steadied the ship right against the flow of the wind, in irons. Instead of slowing down to a halt, the groundship went on and sped ahead, an undercurrent of wind lofting it above the grass and buffeting its sail from behind.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-322' />
Philetus aimed his sail straight in the space between the two huge windcombs. The blades seemed like they would miss it for a few yards. He then saw the sails on the windcombs change their line ferociously, as if someone had thrown a switch, trembling as the blasts of the wind caught on to them. The windcombs' enormous hulls tried to cope with the sudden strain; they turned about in anguish, their bulks careening like wild elephants of old. Still, they missed Philetus's ship.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-323' />
But they met each other; their blades clashed into each other's prow, eating away at themselves and the ships, sparks flying wildly. They ground at each other with logic-defying stubborness, as if somehow they could part away from their last embrace. Instead, their blades soon died down after having turned both windcombs into a drifting, horrible hulk of mangled metal.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-324' />
Philetus breathed deeply and allowed himself a moment to calm down. He sat down on the deck, watching the skyline turn a shade darker. The hazy fog lifted suddenly; he could now see the Tower in the distance. It was strange how close to home everything had transpired; if it wasn't for the fog someone might have already seen what happened. The thought made him frown pensively.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-325' />
The machines. The machines want me dead. They know.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-326' />
Perspiration formed on his head. He was really worried now; because if the machines knew what he had in mind for them and their benevolent planning for mankind, that meant they knew about Heraclea.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-327' />
He felt the wind change; he jibbed the sail immediately and came abeam. He knew of no better way to reach home as fast as possible.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-328' />
I must make it in time. If they so much as touch her..</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-329' />
He'd claw his way into the Tower if he had to. He'd stop at nothing, that much was certain in his mind. They would probably kill him easily, but living on would be pointless without Hera in any case. Without her smile, her kisses and her laughter.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-330' />
I'll kill myself if they don't first. But please, let her be home.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-331' />
He saw then from afar the line of birches he'd planted himself; right next to them, the small orchard, the trees laden with fruit. The small-domed house with the aetrium and the flower garden; that was home. Out there, outside the city proper he'd enjoyed peace, quiet and solitude. Heraclea was born in that house.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-332' />
He skimmed the last few meters and tacked hard against the wind suddenly. The sail rocked, bobbded and turned before he pressed the panel and shut down the antigravity field. The sail came down hard on the ground and skidded for a few moments, thrwoing up billows of dirt in its wake.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-333' />
Before it had come to a stop, Philetus was already dashing to the door.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-334' />
It will be alright. They'll be fine. They're fine.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-335' />
He saw Penthesileia then. She was standing outside, looking at the star set with a vacant stare, her form stuck as if waiting for someone. She saw Philetus then and turned to him; she took no step closer. She waited, her hands clasped together solemnly. Her face was pale, her mouth half-open as if she had no words for what she meant to say. Philetus saw her and somehow knew.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-336' />
No. No. It's not true.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-337' />
He stood in front of her, his face reddened, flush from the anguish and the exertion. He told her out of breath:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-338' />
&ldquo;Where is Hera?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-339' />
Penthesileia shook her head without saying a word. She looked at him morosely, her stare a deathly gaze, sombre and foreboding.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-340' />
&ldquo;No.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-341' />
She broke down in tears suddenly and threw her body against his, her knees weak.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-342' />
&ldquo;They came. They knew,&rdquo; she managed to croak amidst sobs and cries.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-343' />
&ldquo;She's in the Tower then,&rdquo; said Philetus, shooting the imposing tower behind him a desperate look.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-344' />
&ldquo;Philetus, there's no hope. We need to leave while we still can.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-345' />
Her words stung him like an electric shock. He stared at her with the eyes of a blind man seeing the light of day for the first time in his life.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-346' />
&ldquo;Leave?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-347' />
It sounded as if he had never heard the word before, his mouth contorting as he spoke the word.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-348' />
Penthesileia took his hands in hers affectionately, craned her neck and looked at him lovingly. A film of tears in her eyes reflected the first rays of starlight as the night settled in.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-349' />
&ldquo;There's just us now, Philetus. We can always try again, someplace far away. Vanish.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-350' />
&ldquo;Leave her? Leave Heraclea to them? Are you insane?&rdquo; shouted Philetus flinging her arms away from his violently. Anger overtook him. She took a hesitant step back. Her brow was furrowed, her face drawn out, taut.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-351' />
&ldquo;It was your fault, not mine,&rdquo; she said bitterly.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-352' />
Philetus was stunned for a moment; he opened his mouth, tried to retort but couldn't find the words. Penthesileia went on.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-353' />
&ldquo;It was your fault from the beginning. Your wild ideas, your strange beliefs. Why couldn't we have a normal life? Why did we have to be outcasts? Did I have to give birth to an unlawful child only to lose her a few years later? What kind of sacrifice did you ask of me, Philetus?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-354' />
His eyes stared at her vacantly for a moment. He tried to think clearly but he felt his blood boiling, his heart pumping wildly.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-355' />
&ldquo;I asked of you to love me. Me and our child. I'd let them slave me, space me, turn me into fertilizer before they could have her! Why didn't you?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-356' />
&ldquo;What use would that have been? Don't be stupid, Philetus! She's gone, why can't you understand that?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-357' />
&ldquo;My daughter is in that Tower, damn you!&rdquo; he said, and strolled off back towards his sail.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-358' />
&ldquo;Where are you going?&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-359' />
&ldquo;I can't believe you're asking me that question,&rdquo; replied Philetus without stopping, his back rigidly facing Penthesileia.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-360' />
Father, he heard a voice in his mind. He recognised it; it was the strained voice of Heraclea. He hesitated, paused in his stride</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-361' />
&ldquo;No, you will not,&rdquo; said Penthesileia and unfolded a small gun from her robes.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-362' />
Father, watch out!</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-363' />
The voice urged him; it was as if a divine breath of wind had whispered in his ear. He knew his daughter was alive then; his body moved almost of its own accord and the first shot missed him only barely.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-364' />
He then ducked as if the sail's boom was going to hit him in the head; the second shot missed his head by a few inches.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-365' />
And then he dived towards Penthesileia with all his might. He could see her face frozen in disbelief and worry; he couldn't see his own, the flustered face of a maniac baring his teeth with an angry scream like a howl.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-366' />
Philetus dropped her on the ground and another shot went flying wildly into the air. He fell on top of her, placing his weight against his. It was a familiar face on that woman, and a familiar scene to Philetus; but this wasn't about lovemaking.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-367' />
He bit her arm hard, his teeth sinking in her flesh with some effort. She screamed and the gun left her hand. She tried to force him off her, but simply couldn't. Philetus saw her face closely then, he saw the malevolence that tormented it. He saw her anger, her hate. He knew for certain then; nothing remained of his wife in that woman.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-368' />
She spat him in the face and her mouth twitched into an impossibly wide grin. Philetus placed his hands around her throat with sympathy, as if doing her a favor.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-369' />
&ldquo;You just had to have it your way,&rdquo; she said with derision.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-370' />
He nodded and pressed hard. Her breathing became a shallow whisper soon. She fought reflexively, trying to take his hands off her throat, but it was futile.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-371' />
Philetus pressed on with all his mightl; he felt her windpipe crumble. He saw her eyes roll back; nothing but the white in them. She twitched slightly and a mute roar left her. She was dead.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-372' />
I killed her. I killed Penthesileia.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-373' />
That's not mother, said the voice of Heraclea in his head.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-374' />
&ldquo;I know love. I fear it wouldn't make a difference,&rdquo; said Philetus and stifled a sob before he added with some effort, &ldquo;I'm coming, Hera. Hang on love.&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-375' />
The house then dissolved in rainbow-coloured flashing blocks that quickly dissappeared, leaving nothing but a black void in their place. The same thing happened to everything around him, like a wildfire. The ground, the sky, the horizon; everything around him flashed into oblivion; the Tower was the last one to go.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-376' />
A moment of nothingness ensued. He felt a moment of panic; he had to make sure he could think.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-377' />
Am I alive yet?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-378' />
He felt the opening of his eyes, but saw abrupt blackness. In a jarring moment of waking terror he felt his lungs ache from the breathing and his heart racing at an exploding pace.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-379' />
He threw himself upwards, as if trying to leap into flight without a pair of wings, sheer willpower driving him. He felt a series of sharp pains running down his spine as he sat almost upright. A terrible headache assaulted him, like hammers pounding away at his brain with every heartbeat.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-380' />
He glanced around, blinking his eyes wildly; his vision soon adjusted to the dim ambient light of indicator panel arrays, front and behind. There were naked people all around him, lying down on their backs in a bed much like his own, seemingly sleeping comfortably. People of all ages and gender, carefully arrayed, almost crammed together. Cables ran down from the beds.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-381' />
Slaved, all of them.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-382' />
He felt a trickle running down his backside; he put a hand there and felt something warm. He saw blood smeared in his hand; he looked at the bed were he was lying; a series of thin spikes protruded a couple of inches from the bed, where his spine would have rested.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-383' />
I was slaved. In the tower.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-384' />
He backtracked his thoughts for a moment; he remembered killing Penthesileia, escaping the windcombs. He remembered Sustar, and the machine on board the Hyperion. And he remembered Hera, talking to him in that living nightmare.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-385' />
Then he heard her voice again and shivered:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-386' />
Father, hurry. They know. They're coming.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-387' />
</div>
<div style='height:3ex'></div>

<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-392' />
The Tower</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-393' />
</div>
<div style='height:3ex'></div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-398' />
It was Hera. He couldn't understand how she had spoken to him in his mind, but she had. It was her and he hoped with all the might of his soul that it wasn't another dream that would turn into a nightmare; he had no real way of knowing though. He simply believed with his very being that what was happening was real; as real as it mattered to him anyway.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-399' />
A small elevated gangway seemed to vanish into a curve in front of him. The multicoloured feckles of light from the indicator panels gave the chamber an eerily playful visage.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-400' />
She must be somewhere around here.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-401' />
He started at an easy pace, walking amidst the arrays of beds and slaved people; he wished he could help them at that time, but Hera came first. One by one, he checked the beds as far as he could see in the abysmal lighting. Not a sign of her.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-402' />
The top of the Tower, father.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-403' />
Her voice again; she was guiding him, like she knew. As if she could see through his eyes.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-404' />
She's reading my mind.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-405' />
She stood dumbfounded for a moment when he heard her clear as day answer in his mind:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-406' />
I am father. Now please, hurry!</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-407' />
He tarried not a moment longer; he followed the curved gangway at a jogging pace. He could feel the metal grid press hard against his naked feet, but it didn't slow him down at all. He simply went on and soon he was running.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-408' />
The metal gangway led him slowly upwards as it rose in a helix overlooking the chamber of slaved people. He could barely see in front of him with the only source of illumination the panels from below.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-409' />
The gangway went on, thinning and widening seemingly at random. Around him darkness seemed to wane a little; he looked up and saw a pale light shimmering from above. He ventured a glance down and hadn't realised he'd ran this fast this far up; around a hundred feet or more. A drop would surely kill him.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-410' />
Are you scared, father?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-411' />
Hera's question had a tint of playful, happier times in it. He remembered how much she loved groundsailing and smiled as he ran onwards, further up.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-412' />
No, Hera. Neither should you be.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-413' />
Mother said that too but she's dead now.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-414' />
The bastards killed her.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-415' />
You did, father. I saw it.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-416' />
No, no, Hera that was just a dream. Only a dream, dear.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-417' />
Like this one then?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-418' />
What?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-419' />
The Tower and everything around him folded into a thin line of blackness in front of him; pure white engulfed him everywhere he looked. The gangway in the shape of a helix stretched, unfolded into the shape of a ladder. He was floating in a space that had no certain depth, no valid, certain number of dimensions.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-420' />
What is this? Hera?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-421' />
He heard his thoughts aloud. He was thinking, but he heard his own voice. But he wasn't speaking, he wasn't moving his mouth. He instinctively reached for his mouth with his palms. He saw his hands; they clearly belonged to someone else.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-422' />
This is just another dream of mine, father. Isn't it fun?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-423' />
The gangway changed into a rope ladder with flower buds springing from every knot. The white space around him whirled into nothingness and then back into a white syrupy environ. Philetus thought he could taste strawberries.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-424' />
Fun? What is this? What's going on?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-425' />
He tried to pear through a multitude of veils that suddenly covered him like warm blankets. He tossed and turned, with every drifting veil a flash of wonderful starscapes flying past. He suddenly sensed he was falling from somewhere high above; he landed on top of a giant flower bed, submerged in what appeared to be pollen. He started sinking into thick, honey-like mud, his mind bogging down in the process.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-426' />
I'm dreaming father. I'm dreaming of the future.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-427' />
Her voice was carried along a tune, a melody he had never heard before. It assaulted his mind, fading in from an unknown background into a blasting torrent of sound.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-428' />
Choose father, you have to choose.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-429' />
He saw the star as it had been when the tower was built. Hotter, brighter, younger; a lot younger. He saw the men who had built the tower, and laughed thinking that they were ordinary men and women, just like him. Only they seemed happier; they smiled a lot. They were celebrating something, and the Tower was lit and thousands, no millions of lights shone upon it. He saw a foetus; for a moment it looked strange, mysterious. He heard cries. It was a birth.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-430' />
It was Hera's birth.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-431' />
Am I still slaved? Hera?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-432' />
Penthesileia was standing right by him. She had a cup of steaming tea in one hand and was looking worried.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-433' />
&ldquo;Is something wrong?&rdquo; she said, and looked at him intently.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-434' />
Philetus turned around and saw the house he had been living in. Only it was another time and place entirely. His love, Penthesileia, wasn't the woman he knew all along. He knew he'd known her and loved her half of his living days, but he could swear it was the first time he was seeing her face. And the star, the star was all wrong. It was too yellow, too hot; it was too warm for comfort.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-435' />
Hera? Am I still slaved? Hera?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-436' />
I'll show you, father.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-437' />
He saw a past he'd carried along with him all the time; he saw suddenly the truth of it all. He saw the desperation in their eyes, he saw the bloodletting and a beautiful blue and green planet dying, all in one terrible moment, in a child's face somewhere in a rich desert. He saw his race dying, slowly, surely. Just as he believed the machines had forced them to.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-438' />
He understood. He blamed the machines no more. They would have done the same. He would have done the same.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-439' />
What more could they do? But look at me now! I can do anything, father! I'm one of them!</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-440' />
A flash of memory shook him to the core.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-441' />
Remember whom you love the most.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-442' />
He saw himself open his eyes from outside his body; he was inside a large conical room, a huge amorphous crystal spike protruding from the center, reaching up well beyond what seemed to be the very top of the Tower. Hera was sitting on a chair, her eyes closed as if she were sleeping. Thousands of needles stuck out of her body, leading into a mass of delicately woven wires, cables and fibres. They were connected to two separate stacks of huge blueish cubes, radiating some sort of pulsating light, and those in turn were connected to the crystal spike through a series of machines completely unknown to Philetus.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-443' />
Remember whom you love the most.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-444' />
Is it time yet?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-445' />
A cruel metallic voice.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-446' />
Father, I'm scared.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-447' />
Hera, his daughter.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-448' />
Remember whom you love the most. Me, my voice, my mind. I must remember.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-449' />
Soon, the alignment will be finalised. We'll then be able to transmit.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-450' />
The voice of a thinking, lifeless machine.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-451' />
What of the humans now?</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-452' />
That metallic voice again.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-453' />
Father, I want to go home.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-454' />
Hera. It's not her fault, he knows that. It's his own. It always really was his own.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-455' />
Indifferent. Once we transfer.. When we meet again, we will be Gods indeed.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-456' />
That absolutely soulless voice bored through his soul.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-457' />
Father, please.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-458' />
Remember whom you love the most.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-459' />
Philetus remembered and that snapped him out of it; he flexed his muscles and felt his breath. He knew everything that he needed to at once. Hera had told him. He knew he had to stop them. He remembered he loved Hera the most.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-460' />
He was indeed on top of the Tower. He didn't know how he had gotten there through all the telepathic crossover between them and Hera. They abused her like some another one of their devices. No more.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-461' />
Father, please. They're coming, hurry.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-462' />
He hesitated for a moment; that only brought a tear to his eyes because it only made his choice so much more difficult because there was little precious time. Because this was his daughter, Hera.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-463' />
Please, no. There has to be some other way, he thought to himself but he knew better.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-464' />
He shook his head and took a few more steps closer to Hera. He wiped his palms against the hair on his legs and started crying. He only then noticed there was no other sound than a low humming noise and the shallow breathing of Hera.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-465' />
He placed his hands against Hera's slender throat and squeezed.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-466' />
He wasn't looking at her. He couldn't bare look at her. A health panel lit up, and voiced a warning.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-467' />
Philetus pressed harder, his knuckles going white. He felt Hera tense and wake up suddenly. Her hand searched for his cheek, but he turned it away. He felt her eyes, tiny sparkles of gentle light upon him and couldn't help look at his daughter.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-468' />
He started whimpering uncontrollably while the health panel flashed red and sounded an alarm. At the same moment a flurry of activity around him went unnoticed. Automatic controls lit up and started displaying innumerous messages, containing a large incoming orbital body on a direct collision course. Hera had stopped trying to breathe; she had a knowing look on her face and tears running down her cheeks, dripping on her fathers hands still tightly clutched around her throat.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-469' />
He had trouble breathing; he screamed with all his might until his voice died out. He saw the red emergency panels flashing flat vital signs, and looked at the thousands of messages scrolling down the screens around him through blurry, hurt eyes. His mind couldn't cope with it all, and gave up. All the screens became garbled with static before they turned white and black again. A simple &ldquo;REST NOW&rdquo; in huge letters scrolled down on every screen. Beyond the screens, through the slim viewport, one could see the Hyperion was already falling through the atmosphere, burning up at beyond its maximum velocity; a bright, shiny star like never before. It was headed straight for the Tower.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-470' />
He remembered he loved his daughter, Heraclea. Amidst all the buzzing cacophony of alarms and warnings, he pulled out the needles from Hera's body, slowly at first, then faster and faster until none remained. He took her on his arms and trembling set her down on the cold indifferent floor.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-471' />
He kissed her gently on the forehead, feeling his dried tears on her still warm body. His thoughts drifted back when Hera was still a toddler, when she had first seen a groundship; their groundship.</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-472' />
His mouth tried to form a smile when he thought about that day. He'd asked her to tell her what the name of the ship was, and she'd blurted with hands up in the air, and a smile brighter than a million stars:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-473' />
&ldquo;Agro!&rdquo;</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-474' />
And Penthesileia had laughed her heart out, before she took her in her arms and told her like only a mother can:</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-475' />
&ldquo;Argo, silly! Argo!&rdquo;</div>
</body>
</html>
