#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
There is no sound more frightening than the sound of your own breath, Entherio
 realised.
 The same monotonous heave and ho of your lungs, aching for oxygem through
 a sputter of blood.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The readout on the suit was final, unyielding: Seventeen minutes of air
 was all that remained.
 Seventeen minutes of oxidizer left for a broken down machine in the guise
 of a man.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Entherio waded through the filters on his helmet's screen using the haptic
 interface in the suit's gloves.
 The system's sun, blinding white to the unaugmented human eye seemed like
 a benevolent, warm ball of blue light.
 It reminded him of the will-o-wisps he had read about in old Terra stories;
 so beautiful but deadly, so perfectly shaped but lacking form.
 So terminally chaotic.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The beacon had been emitting the distress signal for the better part of
 half a standard revolution.
 In most cases, in the densely populated areas of civilized space someone
 should have picked it up.
 Curiosity, rather than a sense of fellowship and good manners would have
 guided any capable space-faring vessel near his location.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But he was lying in uncharted, unexplored space which was the domain of
 wild astronomers, greedy prospectors and vain explorers.
 This was Driftspace, way out there beyond the gateways of the Maniri and
 the natural wormholes that made the galaxy a little less frightening and
 a bit more friendly to all those that sought to wade through its daunting
 sparseness.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This was where the frontier lay for the naive and childish mankind.
 A welcoming, cold and void tomb for many before him.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But it shouldn't have happened like this.
 The bomb shouldn't have gone off before they'd docked to the Ranjub.
 Someone had triggered it without him knowing.
 Someone, had wanted him dead along with the rest.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He peeked through his visor and saw the debris, the larger pieces drifting
 away at a slow, walking pace; the suit's sensor's tracked them at 0.12 kilometer
s per second.
 As far as the universe was concerned, indeed they hardly moving.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Such an explosion should have ripped the hull apart instantly and leave
 everyone gasping for air in the coldness of space.
 A sparse few seconds had been all the warning he had received, but it was
 long enough to allow Entherio to race to the pod bay and be halfway inside
 a suit when everything around him became unhinged with sudden, extreme
 violence.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
However unlikely, the suit had saved his life but he had survived simply
 to discover the universe was as uncaring as ever.
 Fifteen more minutes, the suit kindly enough reminded him with a visual
 cue.
 He was floating adrift at a speed of 0.122 AUs per hour, sun relative.
 The catchphrase 'astonomical speed' popped in his head and he couldn't
 help a nervous laughter that soon died down and turned into a whimpering,
 muffled sigh.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He didn't relish the thought of dying but the bleeping counter in his viewscreen
 wouldn't let him be.
 It looked as if whoever had designed the damnable piece of equipment had
 left no room for sympathy for the unlucky, dying spacefarer in its last
 few minutes of breath.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The thought surprised him.
 Was that truly how he would describe himself? A journeyman, a traveler
 akin to those that plied the strange, unfamiliar oceans of old, long before
 anyone had thought of the universe anything other than the solely flat
 domain of an intricately mischievous, even sadistic God?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He didn't choke down his laughter because he knew he'd expend more oxygen
 with no good reason.
 He simply knew that none of the silly thoughts in his mind mattered any
 more.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The war didn't matter, the bloody ship didn't matter either, and Carin was
 now nothing more than a collection of atoms carried aloft by the wind of
 NV-2913.
 Catalogued, G-type white dwarf star.
 No planets, no asteroid belt, no outer bodies.
 A lone fusion factory somewhere in the cosmos, drifting in a downward spiral
 towards the center of the galaxy.
 A god-damn fireball, blindly cast billions of years ago.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It would be the sole witness to his death, a terrible source of power and
 the primordial, original factory of matter and life itself.
 He was going to die alone, in the presence of an old, venerable God.
 But God didn't seem to know or care.
 That makes two of us, he thought and closed his eyes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He checked the counter; Thirteen minutes and thirty three seconds until
 oxygen depletion.
 His mind preoccupied itself with feeding him useless information from his
 days in orientation: another minute until respiratory arrest, then four
 to five minutes until unsustainable information death.
 From then on, another fifteen minutes until cellular death and utter cybernetic
 memory loss.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
He figured that he wouldn't mind complete oblivion; it was the precise knowledge
 of the how and why that bugged him.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Not because of the instinct to live, or his frail trust in the neuroteleogical
 principle.
 It was the damnable reason he had ended up in that very same suit that
 so casually informed he'd be dead in a multitude of unreversable ways:
 Carin.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
