#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\begin_preamble
\sloppypar
\chapterstyle{ger}
\end_preamble
\options largecrownvopaper,openany
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman times
\font_sans cmss
\font_typewriter lmtt
\font_default_family rmdefault
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc true
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 105
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format pdf2
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Blood Bonds"
\pdf_author "Vasileios Kalampakas"
\pdf_subject "A story of duty and sacrifice in Biafra"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 4
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref false
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 5.25in
\paperheight 8in
\leftmargin 0.8in
\topmargin 0.8in
\rightmargin 0.4in
\bottommargin 0.7in
\headheight 0.3in
\headsep 0.25in
\footskip 0.4in
\secnumdepth -1
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle ruled
\bullet 0 0 17 -1
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
Fine Picks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
“Hey, Lem.
 Pour me another.” The bartender let the glass he was holding flow down freely
 to the metal bar, and complied with some reluctance.
 He picked up a plastic bottle very much like the ones used in environment
 control, opened it and with practiced ease let the fine globules of a thick,
 yellowish clear liquid smash against the inner side of the shot glass,
 tumbling and rolling slowly like a wave impossibly slowed down in time.
 The small maelstrom of liquor had not yet settled when the bartender leaned
 closer to the single client in his establishment, before his synthetic
 voice echoed with the leaden harmonics of machine precision: “If I were
 a compassionate human being, I would have told you you had enough an hour
 ago.
 But, since I’m an adaptable artificial intelligence with a taste for bad
 liquor, I’d say just let the contralisto set in a bit.
 Let the ammonia waft through your nostrils.
 Microgravity makes it so much more intense.” Klatsikowski was looking absent-min
dedly at the thick-set synthetic torso of the machine: it was dull and gray
 like the rest of the radioactive ball of rock beneath their feet.
 Klatsikowski grumbled something almost unintelligible about nostrils, alcohol,
 nitrates, synthetic nano-engineered sensory skins and spirit connoiseurs
 that could not have been interpreted as anything less than cursing, swearing
 and name-calling.
 To Lem, the robotic AI bartender, it sounded as if Klatsikowski hated both
 robots and AIs equally, as if they were the same thing: as if robots, unlike
 utility-class AIs like itself, cared.
 Lem knew Klatsikowski didn’t mean most of what he said though, so it indulged
 his wishes with a certain amount of eagerness.
 Perhaps for him it was part of a strange ritual, asking to be served piss-poor
 home-made diluted rocket fuel in the now practically empty recreation hut,
 even though he could just stay in his bunk and drink up till he was filled
 to the brim for a trip back to Earth.
 Klatsikowski drank the shot of glass in one go, flinched and grimaced from
 the burning he felt in his insides, a feeling he had described as ‘acid
 eating away on your intestinal track with fork and knife’.
 The last time he had talked about it to Lem, the ‘machine’ as they had
 both agreed was a technically appropriate term they could both use without
 hurting each other’s feelings, had tried to drive through the point that
 Klatsikowski was actually drinking a base solution, not an acidic one.
 The argument had gone on for hours, with Klatsikowski trying to grasp the
 finer points by extensive sampling of the almost potable rocket fuel in
 question.
 The result was another week of hydration restorative treatment in an immersion
 tank.
 Klatsikowski had drunkenly insistent that he had simply needed a cold shower,
 not a bath.
 Lem had since then decided he would never be amazed again by the sheer
 stupidity that lurked in people’s mind.
 Klatsikowski was gazing outside the small window screen with his head drunkenly
 resting on his replacement cybernetic arm.
 Ash was falling down slowly, almost languidly, as if it didn’t really want
 to touch the ground.
 It was the same radioactive ash that fell on Cubert’s Falls every time
 the dominating figure of Mount Chernlow decided it was yet again time for
 another blast, an event which ignored statistical models and just went
 off practically all the time.
 The geologists were puzzled but all that left Klatsikowski unperturbed.
 The affectionately called sanitation engineer of the colony managed to
 blurt from within his drunken stupor: “That..
 Tasted like piss.
 Good and proper piss, with an edge.
 That’s good piss, right there.” Lem wished he could smile affectionately
 but lacking any facial features simply nodded with its stub of sensors
 that resembled a head before saying with a hint of weariness: “It’s the
 ammonia, Klatsikowski.” Klatsikowski just kept staring past the bartender
 and through the same, smudged and stained small window pane behind the
 robot.
 For a moment, he thought it was Christmas and the ash was nothing but snow.
 The taste of piss in his mouth brought him back to the ugliness around
 him.
 He grinned despite himself, thinking that even if Santa did exist, there
 were no addresses on Cubert’s Falls.
 No postal service.
 No goddamn presents this year either.
 Just radiation, rock and the thick ash.
 He tried to remember why he had signed on that four year contract but he
 couldn’t.
 He must’ve been dead drunk back then as well.
 Probably not on something that smelled like piss though.
 Lem saw the bitter mood on his face and did what all bartenders worth their
 money ever do: he tried to strike up a conversation.
 “Feeling down again, Klatsikowski? What’s gotten into you today? Is it
 the ash?” With all the shielding, the ash was as dangerous as a triple-redundan
t oxygen safety valve.
 They rarely failed, and when they did, there was still time enough to get
 to a hazard suit or another habitat before asphyxiation.
 Even if the ash got through the shielding and seeped into your body, it
 was low dosage radiation.
 It wouldn’t kill a man outright: mutation, radiation poisoning, and most
 probably cancer would follow.
 These were certainties of life that the colonists on Cubert’s Falls could
 count on.
 All that, coupled with microgravity induced paranoia, metal imbalances
 in the blood stream, as well as calcium deficiency and muscle mass loss.
 Until the underground complex was finished, they’d keep on dying as extremely
 well-paid individuals, hundreds of millions of miles away from Earth.
 Dying a rich man always sounded better than just dying.
 Klatsikowski looked away from the pane, his look firmly fixed on his empty
 glass like it was the only thing that kept him alive, a lifeline of sorts.
 He told the bartender robot then, pointing an angry finger at the dull
 metal hulk of the machine: “Now you mind your own god-damn business: pour
 me another one, and lemme have the cheque.” Lem replied in what could have
 been a kind tone of voice, if the voice had belonged to a comely woman:
 “Bill, you know there’s no such thing as money around here.
 I can’t charge you for anything.
 First of all, I don’t even have a savings account to tap it off your own.
 Let me have your glass.” Klatsikowski banged his hand on the metal bar with
 exasperated force, the shot glass thrown up in the air, then landing with
 a clang and rolling on its side.
 He was flush red with anger and the drinking.
 His voice was low and gravely as if his throat was sore.
 Venomous bitterness spilled behind each word: “My money ain’t good enough
 for this place? I got enough money to buy a fucking island, do you know
 that Lem? A fucking island, with trees.
 Beaches of white sand, sea the color of turq-oyze.
 Blue and green, that’s turq-oyze.
 You hear me, god-dammit? My money’s not even good enough to buy some piss
 around here?” Lem moved back on its wheels a bit, making an apologetic
 motion with its hands, trying to calm Klatsikowski once more.
 The man was rambling about his grievances in a well-known scenario.
 There was nothing much Lem could do about it other than wait it out: sheer
 patience and a penchant for listening to suicidal alcoholics usually did
 the trick.
 Bill Klatsikowski had tried to take away his own life right before the
 end of his first calendar year on Callisto.
 Lem had detailed information and reports on the incident, and had felt
 as genuinely sorry for the man as it could.
 To this day, the machine could not fathom how the determination behind
 jailbreaking a four-way redundant digital locking mechanism was shot down
 by sheer luck or lack thereof, when a returning geosurvey team just happened
 to find him floating outside the vehicle pool, clinically dead in the hard
 vaccuum.
 The medical team had performed nothing short of a miracle when they resuscitate
d him after almost fifteen minutes.
 For fifteen minutes, Bill Klatsikowski had gone beyond and had they been
 able to ask him, he might have chosen to never come back.
 Mental illness and suicidal tendencies should have been enough of a cause
 for Klatsikowski to get himself a return trip to Earth, complete with hazard
 payment for the first year as well as all the medical expenses covered.
 Corporate lawyers though are a breed apart and since they specialize in
 fucking up people’s lives in the interest of the shareholders they did
 their job: because of the high alcoholic content in Klatsikowski’s blood,
 they effectively proved in court that the attempt was an accident.
 Not only that, but they even managed to withhold a year’s payment from
 Klatsikowski, for ‘losses incurred from unprecipitated disruption in normal
 operations’.
 Lem had reached to the conclusion that judge bribes on Earth come a lot
 cheaper than janitors on Callisto.
 Lem watched Klatsikowski as he tried to stagger off his makeshift stool
 of a fuel container towards the hab’s airlock.
 It was an effort worthy of praise, and it ultimately could have been successful
 if the airlocks had been designed to allow floating bodies with high alcoholic
 content to pass through them freely.
 With slow deliberance, Klatsikowski’s body settled down on the floor of
 hab.
 He was seemingly asleep or perhaps even unconscious; it didn’t really matter.
 It didn’t come as a surprise that he drank diluted rocket fuel in copious
 amounts every day.
 What else could the man do other than try to kill himself by drinking?
 It was slow and steady, like the ash that surrounded them.
 It would get to him, he knew it as well.
 Maybe not on Callisto, maybe not soon enough.
 But he’d need a whole farm of transplants if he made it back to Earth.
 Lem felt kind of relieved he couldn’t go through any of that.
 No frail human body for him to worry about.
 All that concerned Lem was having a recent backup off-site.
 And some decent repair robots.
 The ones on Cubert’s Falls sucked at wheel work.
 Mass market firmwares.
 For all the money the corporation had put in all this, one would think
 they’d be a little more mindful of the hardware.
 Then again, judging how they treated humans like Klatsikowski, Lem thought
 he’d gotten the better deal.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
