#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass memoir
\begin_preamble
\sloppypar
\chapterstyle{ger}
\end_preamble
\options largecrownvopaper,openany
\use_default_options false
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding utf8
\fontencoding global
\font_roman Adobe Garamond Pro
\font_sans Berlin Sans FB
\font_typewriter Andale Mono
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts true
\font_sc true
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 105
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command texindy
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref true
\pdf_title "Last Christmas on Earth - a practical guide"
\pdf_author "Vasileios Kalampakas"
\pdf_subject "A practical guide to help you turn the last Christmas before the end of the world, into the best Christmas of your life"
\pdf_keywords "christmas, satire, parody, humor, end of the world, end of days, guide, practical guide"
\pdf_bookmarks true
\pdf_bookmarksnumbered true
\pdf_bookmarksopen true
\pdf_bookmarksopenlevel 4
\pdf_breaklinks false
\pdf_pdfborder true
\pdf_colorlinks false
\pdf_backref section
\pdf_pdfusetitle true
\papersize custom
\use_geometry true
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\paperwidth 5.25in
\paperheight 8in
\leftmargin 0.8in
\topmargin 0.8in
\rightmargin 0.4in
\bottommargin 0.7in
\headheight 0.3in
\headsep 0.25in
\footskip 0.4in
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle ruled
\bullet 0 0 17 -1
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Last Christmas on Earth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center

\shape smallcaps
a practical guide
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
by Vasileios Kalampakas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
November 28, 2011
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Copyright © 2011 Vasileios Kalampakas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage newpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Since the dawn of humanity's tool-wielding days, man has arguably made a
 lot of progress: we now have things that daily shape our lives in totally
 unpredictable and curious ways.
 Like the internet, cheap airplane tickets, nuclear plants, celebrities,
 and a whole multidimensional array of advances that create a sense of awesome
 power and an assured future for the whole of planet Earth.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I hate to break it to you, but if you still haven't heard, the world as
 we know it will end on December 21, 2012.
 The experts confirm it, the evidence is overwhelming, and very important
 personalities from around the world (including - but not limited to - Mel
 Gibson and Dan Aykroyd for example) are already admitting what the rest
 of humanity turns a deaf ear to: the 2011 Christmas, will be everyone's
 Last Christmas on Earth.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Surely, it's kind of difficult to imagine a world without Christmas: even
 the Chinese have grudgingly admitted that it's fun (and good for business).
 But the truth of the matter is that even if the world doesn't go up in
 flames in 2012, and there's still life to be found on the planet, the world-sha
ttering events that are bound to happen, will change everything forever.
 Including Christmas.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You may refer to the appropriate sections in this guide to see the insurmountabl
e evidence that has accrued over these last few years by scientists, academics,
 journalists, actors and all sorts of experts and activists.
 It's real; it will happen.
 But do not despair, because at least you have the opportunity to make the
 most out of what little time is left for everyone.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And what better way to do it, than making these last Christmas on Earth,
 the best Christmas of your life? What better way to throw your fist up
 in the air and defy the universe and fate itself by boldly stating that
 you don't care if the world is turned into a molten ball of lava.
 That it doesn't really matter if it's turned into a pock-marked shadow
 of its former self.
 That even if the oceans boil away or cover the entire surface of the planet,
 even if Earth is split in half like an egg, if aliens invade and lay waste
 to everything, even Alaska, you would have remained eternally young, like
 the stuff the stars made of, making this Christmas reason enough for the
 cosmos to shed a tiny tear for our coming annihilation.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This guide, is not a survival guide per se: the chances of survival from
 the coming annihilation are rather slim, if not just a dream.
 And though our bodies will be broken, our spirits will remain true, defiant:
 We should celebrate like never before, as these will be our last Christmas.
 And this guide will help you spread the truth and glory of the last, best
 Christmas on Earth, releasing you in the process from all the trouble of
 living in an uncertain world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once you firmly subscribe to the ideas and notions presented in this guide,
 it is guaranteed you'll have the time of your lives and these holidays
 will be a thing to remember for the rest of your lives.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Throughout the various sections, there will be points assigned to the various
 activities and actions you should perform to make these Christmas truly
 unique (apart from being your last, of course).
 You should check up with the scoreboard at the end of the book once the
 holiday season is over to find out whether or not your Christmas experience
 was truly monumental.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Remember:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These will be your last Christmas on Earth.
 Make them count.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
It's the end of the world as we know it, and I feel fine
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One might get the feeling that the annihilation of the world is a bad thing.
 Some might say that `bad' is an understatement.
 But I ask you this: how many worlds, in how many galaxies have been annihilated
, only to be reborn, the few lucky survivors spurred on to achieve greatness,
 and ensure the survival of their species, their civilization: According
 to Drake's revised equation, probably millions.
 Complete world annihilation is a fact, but it's only as natural as a ants:
 You can easily burn an anthill to the ground, but some of the ants will
 getaway, with seed on their backs.
 They'll build again.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is the most appropriate mindset when dealing with the knowledge of
 the world's demise: it's not that big of a deal.
 It's something that happens every day.
 Actually, it happens every minute: a recent NASA report concluded that
 every minute, approximately 92.1 million planets are consumed by supernovas,
 123.2 million are obliterated by asteroid impacts, 78.4 million torn apart
 by gravitic forces, 23.1 million self-destruct, and roughly 10 million planets
 just vanish out of orbit.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In contrast, 312.3 million planets are born every minute, hence the well-document
ed expanding nature of the universe (there may be small discrepancies in
 the numbers but these are just statistical figures, not the complete data
 set, so do not be alarmed if the math doesn't check out - believe me, the
 universe is growing despite all the planets being destroyed).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The main idea behind all this is that you should live the rest of your lives
 in fear.
 You should come to grips with the idea that you were going to die anyway
 in a few decades.
 This development only makes it happen sooner.
 Once you accept that fact, a whole new world of possibilities to make the
 most out of this Christmas opens up.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To do that, you need to understand how and why the end of the world is going
 to happen on December 21, 2012.
 You also need to understand why there's no public acknowledgement of the
 fact from government and scientific circles.
 You need to understand that there's no going around it, it will happen
 one way or another, it can't be avoided, stopped, or delayed, and that
 even if you do survive (the chances are slightly better if you're living
 in China but not by much) these will be indeed your last Christmas.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Read on, and remember:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It's going to happen.
 It can't be avoided.
 These are your last Christmas.
 You can only make them count.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
What the fuss is all about
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Maya were a highly advanced mesoamerican civilization.
 They had very advanced knowledge of astronomy, mathematics and medicine,
 and they are the only known civilization to have a fully developed written
 language.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As recent archaelogical evidence and historical research suggests, the Maya
 were most probably descendants of the Anunnaki, the ancient God-like beings
 who have time and again seeded humanity with apocryphal knowledge, some
 of which remains hidden to this day.
 Though the exact links between Atlantis, the Annunaki, the Sumerians, and
 the Mayans is not easy to trace, there is ample enough evidence to support
 the idea that in fact Mayans were the caretakers of the alien Anunnaki's
 most unfathomable secrets.
 Mainly, the exact date of the destruction of the Earth.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Tha Maya have clearly noted down that date in their calendar, which literally
 ends with December 21, 2012.
 Of course they hadn't noted down that particular date with a big red circle.
 But through intense analysis, cross-references and some pretty heavy math,
 archaeologists have transcribed the Mayan calendar into Gregorian dates.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using state-of-the-art computers from the NSA, who had flagged the excavations
 back in the early 1980s as of utmost importance to national security (some
 even presume the upheaval in Latin American countries, like Nicaragua,
 or the war on drugs in Colombia and Mexico were most probably cover operations
 for other, larger NSA schemes to secure artifacts and working Mayan computers),
 scientists at various well-respected academic institutions who prefer to
 remain anonymous for obvious reasons, are very definite that the date is
 set in stone, both literally and figuratively speaking.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Certain reactionists, people who place more value in belief rather than
 concrete evidence, shout their opposition to the idea that an ancient civilizat
ion like the Maya could actually have predicted the end of the world, while
 even today with all the computing power available, a weather forecast is
 indeed a matter mostly left to chance.
 These people who are quick to discard the truth about the Mayan revelation
 are either afraid to even consider the horrifying prospect of utter annihilatio
n, or have further agendas that should be taken into consideration (see
 section 1.2).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Others try to subtly alter the meaning behind this fascinating though ominous
 discovery: some malinformed skeptics point out that the last date in the
 Mayan calendar, is nothing but the last day in a cycle, an age or a period.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That is a pretty thought, but again hard evidence quickly dissolves any
 illusions that this assumption might hold true: Why would a Mayan who knows
 when to plant his crops, and when to wait for the changing of the weather,
 knowing that these things happen time and time again, mark any of it down?
 Were the inscriptions a chance artifact? Why if it was common knowledge
 at the time bury such evidence under heaps of dirt, stone, and walls, deep
 into the most difficult to reach parts of the Mexican jungle? This kind
 of wishful thinking only detracts from the really valid and useful questions:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How did the Maya come across that very sensible information? Why did they
 note it down in fragile clay platters instead of carving it on the Earth,
 like the Incas did in their Nazca fields? Why wasn't there a whole monument
 dedicated to the End of Days, like the Pyramids? 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We may never know.
 Some of it, we will never have the time to find out.
 But certainly the Mayas weren't speaking for themselves: it all came from
 a higher form of intelligence, a space-faring civilization with powers
 yet impossible to grasp: The Annunaki.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Why put trust in these aliens whom we've never seen before? Why should we
 listen to these sirens of danger? Because they've warned us time and again
 (the flaming bush? Noah's ark? there's ample evidence even in the Bible
 itself, not to mention the Dead Sea Scrolls).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Through means unimaginable to us even at this advantaged day and age, the
 Anunnaki have calculated a catastrophic event is to occur on December 21,
 2012.
 There are various scenarios that might bring this end about, ranging from
 a rogue planet reorbiting the Sun after hundreds of thousands of years
 to supervolcanoes.
 There's nothing really apocryphal, magical, or supernatural about all that.
 It's perfectly good, solid, though far-advanced computer technology that
 simply permits civilizations like the Annunaki to make accurate predictions
 on a galactic scale.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
See section 1.3 for a more detailed explanation and the undeniable proof
 concerning the Mayan calendar and the date the Mayas have preserved from
 their ancient past: the date the world end.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Remember:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
These are your last Christmas.
 Now you know why the world is going to end.
 It's not too late to make this Christmas the best you'll ever have.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Why we're not being told the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the
 truth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At a first glance, there is no large cover-up; no disinformation campaign,
 no large media war to subdue the masses into believing the world is perfectly
 safe.
 And that's the trick.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We, as a human species, have inherited the survival instinct of our predatory
 ancestors.
 It is therefore only a natural instinct to disregard the signs, the omens,
 the proof.
 Therefore, even if the people that already know what's going down (the
 NSA, the Echelon people, the Dead Sea Scrolls Society, the shadow government
 located at the Pitcairn Islands), don't need to do anything.
 Anything at all.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Just by ignoring the facts and simply laughing off what's by now a known
 matter among certain expert academic circles and grass-roots non-government
 organizations, they've achieved their goal: to simply enhance the people's
 knee-jerk reaction, which is to completely deny even the merest possibility
 that the world is going to end, on December 21, 2012.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
But ask yourselves, why deny the inevitable? What do they hope to gain,
 since it will be plain for all to see that our time on Earth, as we know
 it, is running hopelessly out?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Some would be quick to point out, that as in the case of the faked moon
 landings, the creation of the Soviet Union and the withholding of teleportation
 and nuclear fusion technology, their purpose is control of the masses.
 That they believe a wide-spread panic would ensue when official news of
 the end of the world was announced.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ask yourself? Would that be the case? Would people start running around
 in mindless frenzy, digging caves, going up mountains and building nuclear
 fallout shelters? Are we just primals, still in fear of fire, the thunder
 and the snow? Do we still believe we are nothing but a blimp in history,
 a tiny cosmological error to be wiped at a mere fancy of the cosmos?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ask yourself, are we not men (and women)?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It's only a matter of logistics.
 If people knew the world was about to end, they'd largely reorganize their
 priorities: Work would become unimportant: people would have walks, dinner
 with friends, play and enjoy their last rays of sun.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And that would inevitably be bad for the economy, an overly mismanaged,
 debt-ridden economy that creates inordinate amounts of immaterial wealth:
 money on paper.
 Do you seriously believe all that money is anything other than a means
 to repress people, make them fearful of the future and subdue them into
 looking the other way, even while the space elevator to Mars is in its
 last stages of construction.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That's what they're doing right behind everyone's back: trying to avoid
 the inevitable.
 And they don't want anyone to know because then, everybody would like a
 seat on that space elevator.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
You don't really have to worry about all that though: their plan is pretty
 much doomed to failure.
 It's not just the interpretation of the mayans, as well as the most recent
 proof on Nubiru, the asteroid shower, the alien invasion fleet and the
 magmatropic disturbances that will climax around the last week of November
 2012.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It's the real proof you can read on about in the next section.
 For details on how their plan is doomed to failure, refer to section 1.4.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
And always remember:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It's everyone's last Christmas.
 Have no fear; just have fun.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Connect the dots if you need proof
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Aliens.
 Nazca.
 The Pyramids.
 The Echelon conspiracy.
 The Murmansk underground base.
 The Taklamakan staging field.
 Google maps.
 The Leviathan base near the Barents' Sea.
 The underwater magma drill at Sargasso Deep.
 HAARP.
 The internet.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What are all these things, you might ask? Interconnected.
 Dots in a larger scheme that once connected, draw the outline of The Human
 Paradigm.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An plan designed by aliens and carried out by secret societies working throughou
t history, deeply embedded within international organizations, governments,
 and multinational corporations.
 The culmination of thousands of years of work.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What is it all about? Survival of the species.
 Once the battleground between a humanoid species spanning half the galaxy,
 and an invading reptiloid force of malevolent aliens, Earth became neutral
 ground, a bargaining chip in a much greater war.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The fighting came to a standstill soon, and the chip was thrown in: Earth
 was to be destroyed, moved out of the way to insure that it wouldn't become
 part of either the Solenoid Empire or the Vrill Sovereignty.
 But just obliterating the planet would go against all known ethics of war
 in the universe.
 It had to look like an `accident'.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Enter the fledgling human race, still trying to master fire, stone-making
 and farming.
 What hope was there against spacefaring aliens who possessed rules of war,
 a legal system and the power to alter planetary body orbits? Nothing.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A merciful deal was struck: the humans would be allowed to exist for a small
 period of time, only to witness the destructionn of planet Earth, at a
 predetermined date, that would allow them to tecnologically evolve into
 a space-faring race on their own (albeit with a little help).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Science fiction you say? A load of crap? Conspiracy theories? Naturally,
 that's what they want you to believe.
 Because, we can't fit everyone on the Elevetor.
 Because only the chosen few, the elite, propagated themselves with the
 sole goal of maintaining their bloodlines, and with the moral mitigating
 factor that they were doing it for the good of humanity, because there
 was no other way.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Mayans were one of the few clusters in an ancient network of civilizations
 that became the caretakers of the knowledge and the driving force behind
 humanity progress throughout the ages.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That network of select few tribes included the Ancient Greeks, the Egyptians,
 the Vikings, and naturally, the Australian aboriginals and the Atlanteans.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What happened to all those civilizations you say?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Ancient Greeks grew impatient and believed progress should be accelerated.
 When Alexander the Great happened upon the Solar Nexus left over by the
 Annunaki as a communications center and technology demonstrator, deep in
 the Afghani mountains, measures had to be taken.
 An Atlantean assassin, whose real name was never really known (but resurfaced
 to this day from the astral-projection-assisted writings of Edgar Rice
 Burroughs - the hero was named Conan, an anagram for Ancon, the ancient
 name of modern day Ancona, Italy, the site of the Quadrilateral Flux Capacitor
 used by the Romans against Hannibal) took care of things.
 The Ancient Greeks squabbled over a disintegrating empire.
 They gradually became a shadow of their former self, taken over by the
 Roman Empire, in itself nothing but a puppet-state of the Egyptian Anubis
 Society (notable members include Cleopatra, naturally, and up to this day
 the writer of the `Stargate' series, a rogue agent who capitalised on his
 hidden knowledge).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The mantle was then usurped by the Vikings, in effect a hyperborean race
 of genetically modified base-human stock (the same Vikings that were reanimated
 with partial success by Hitler's Ahnenerbe in Project Thule).
 Their large scale expeditions and raids were nothing other than a front
 to cover-up their true intentions, which was reasserting control of the
 Hall of the Mountain King in the Alps, a central node in the ancient knowledge
 network that held all the secret plans and important dates, among which,
 the deadline of December 21, 2012.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once their goal was achieved, they mysteriously disappeared from the known
 history books.
 Instead of becoming a huge European empire in their own right, they silently
 crept off the path of history.
 Why? Because their mission (and contract) lay with pursuing the original
 deal struck with te Aliens.
 As part of that effort, they seeded Europe with a large number of children
 with locked potential, that would steer the continent into global pre-eminence,
 out of the dark ages and into the rennaisance and the industrial revolution
 (especially Britain - do you think that the rise of the British empire
 was a chance event? it was the Vikings' meticulous planning and advanced
 genetic stock).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Where did the Vikings vanish to then? America, naturally.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Even before the earlier recorded date (the real findings are astounding,
 dating back to the 4th century AD, right after the rise of the Byzantine
 Empire) the Vikings were actively seeding populations in America.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Why nothing can be done about it
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
This is your last chance for Christmas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Why you should give a damn about the last Christmas on earth
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Wiping the slate clean and starting all over again for the last time
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Hate them or love them, you just can't miss them
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
In the workplace
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
How to interact with customers/clients
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The casual approach
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Whatever your workplace, you sooner or later interact with customers.
 Customers, or clients, usually have questions that you might not be qualified
 to answer, questions you've never even heard of before, or even totally
 irrelevant things like `Where did you get those shoes?' or perhaps `Don't
 you miss Baywatch?'.
 In any case, when interacting with a customer in the workplace, if you're
 not into the more drastic measures outlined in the following sections,
 the casual approach is probably your cup of tea.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Do exactly what you would have done if you didn't know this was the last
 Christmas on Earth.
 When working the cash register in a supermarket for instance, once the
 customer walks up to you and you start ticking off the items with the barcode
 reader, grin and shake your head off.
 Make a comment about how worthless all the stuff people are buying are.
 Stop what you're doing, look the customer directly in the eye and tell
 him that these are everyone's last Christmas.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Whatever the customer's initial reaction, be that a scoff or a nervous laugh
 or even complete indifference, just finish up your work and then give them
 their coupons, making sure to tell them how useless the coupons are since
 they're only good for the next holiday season.
 Don't forget to wish them a merry last Christmas when they're leaving.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If your workplace involves the offer of services and you talk more regularly
 to clients, it is quite possible you have a closer working relationship,
 perhaps even a certain degree of intimacy.
 Imagine, if you will, a certain client named Bob.
 If he drops by for regular business or calls you up, act normally.
 Right about when he's talking about rates, delivery dates, and anything
 related to a future even or prospect, start laughing uncontrollably.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Within small pauses, just slip in the notion that none of that stuff is
 going to fly anyway, because the world is about to end.
 If he asks questions, just give him answers.
 If he thinks you're intoxicated or sick, just straighten your face abruptly
 and tell him these will be everyone's last Christmas, and you're planning
 on making the most out of them.
 Wish Bob a merry last Christmas, and hang up or walk away casually.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Generally, your casual approach should be just that: casual, easy-going,
 simple, with a little bit of your personal character thrown in for good
 measure.
 Just make sure to let everyone know this is everybody's last Christmas,
 that you're planning on having a blast, and perhaps most importantly of
 all, let them know that in the face of total extinction, everything they
 do, and especially what they want to buy is meaningless.
 Always be polite, and wish everyone a merry last Christmas.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The casual approach is worth one (1) Funpoint.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The aggresive approach
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This approach is best suited for people who are already tired of their work,
 their boss, the people they have to put up with everyday, their colleagues,
 and generally dissatisfied, disillusioned workers with a tendency to let
 off some steam.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Say you're working as a cab driver in some metropolis, like New York, or
 Los Angeles.
 Most of your customers do not realise what you have to go through every
 day and treat you more of like a necessary evil than a valuable service
 provider.
 Have it right back at them.
 Mix up the destinations.
 Pretend you misheard wrong.
 Never have small change at hand.
 Keep stacking up people inside your cab.
 Take sudden, strange turns and label them a `time-saving detour'.
 If they do protest, tell them it's the last Christmas anyway and it doesn't
 really matter whether they miss that appointment or job interview anyway,
 because in less than a year's time they'll be smouldering heaps of ash,
 or worse.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another good example where you can be assertive in your approach is in the
 standard office space, as a clerk or a secretary.
 When clients ask you about that report, that paper, or those rates, give
 them a whole binder of inane, completely alien and irrelevant documents.
 When they start to give you the funny eye, throw a mass of documents wildly
 into the air and comment that you like it when it snows.
 If they wish to talk to your supervisor, manager, or director, just pick
 up the phone, pretend to dial an internal number and say `the asshole that
 keeps busting everyone's balls wants to talk to you'.
 It's very important to smile while doing that.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If the customer starts to leave, cursing and threatening to sue, looking
 appalled and shocked tell him that it shouldn't matter because these are
 the last Christmas on Earth, and the court dates set will be long past
 the end of the world.
 Instead, if the customers is the rowdy type that doesn't mind getting physical,
 staple a couple of documents to his forehead first so he can't see, and
 then a couple more on his palms, so he can't make a fist.
 Finish up with a kick in the nuts, start running and wish him a merry Christmas
, because it will be his last.
 Make sure you emphasise the world is coming to an end, lest what you said
 is considered a death threat.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In general be firm, aggresive, single-minded; act like you're really mean,
 especially if you don't look like it.
 Try and think about what would drive the other person mad or suicidal.
 Be ruthless and enforce your small, hastily-hatched plan to the end, even
 if not all the angles are covered or it's not that harmful.
 Remember that if it's bad for the other person, it's definitely good for
 you and helps making your last Christmas the best.
 An angry, disillusioned, shocked customers is good for you and bad for
 the business.
 It makes for a better Christmas!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The aggressive approach is worth four (4) Funpoints.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Things to do with, and to, your colleagues
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It's true that most of our daily experiences are associated with the workplace,
 and the people who work there.
 Some of them are nice folks, some are idiots, and some are simply irritating.
 You should broach the subject of the last Christmas on Earth in a candid
 fashion.
 Be honest, and straightforward.
 Those who will understand the seriousness of the situation, will probably
 want to join in the fun.
 Those who'll laugh about it and call you crazy or someone with a weird
 sense of humor will be losing out on the fun.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In any case, pick your partners.
 In many cases you'll probably have to go through this alone, but surely
 someone from your workplace will be happy to assist in making everyone's
 last Christmas very memorable indeed.
 You don't have to stick to the ideas listed in here: every workplace is
 different and has innumerable opportunities.
 You should have a little brainstorming session with the like-minded people
 in your work, and hatch up similar activities.
 Think of those listed in this section as a guideline on the scope of the
 idea.
 Don't hesitate to let your imagination run free.
 Remember that it's your last Christmas, and you deserve to have fun!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The water dispenser
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the most widely available pieces of office equipment, is the water
 dispenser.
 Freshly bottled water, both hot and cold, for sating everybody's thirst
 and satisfying the instant coffee making needs.
 Since this will be the last Christmas, you really do have to make it count
 for everyone else as well, in keeping with the holiday spirit of sharing.
 There are many ways through which you can spread a lot of joy using the
 water dispenser at work.
 Some of the things you should try:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Replacing the water in the container with vodka (or any other 40% vol.
 alcohol drink of your choice)
\series default

\begin_inset Newline linebreak
\end_inset

Most folks will probably find it an interesting diversion.
 Keep a couple of bottles of lemonade or orangeade handy though, because
 vodka is pretty tasteless.
 Once everybody starts having vodka shots from the dispenser, pretty soon
 almost will be inebriated and inevitably join the impromptu party.
 The choice of music is left to you, though Christmas carols, and generally
 Christmas-themed songs (especially Last Christmas by Wham) should be preferred.
 If your boss tries to mess up the party or if your coworkers are that boring
 a bunch, douse yourself with the vodka from the container and threaten
 to light yourself up.
 If noone points out that vodka can't be set on fire like gasoline, calmly
 make your way to the exit, shouting that the world is going to end, and
 this your last sober Christmas on Earth.
 
\shape slanted
(3 funpoints)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Pour some psychedelic/psychotropic drugs into it
\begin_inset Newline linebreak
\end_inset

That's pretty simple and straightforward.
 Once you've acquired a certain amount of psychedelic/psychotropic drugs
 (see section 6.3.1 on who might be able to help); LSD, crystal meth, peyote
 come to mind - you can pick your favorite or try a mix of any of the above.
 Slip that wondrous stuff into the water dispenser and become a psychiatric
 researcher for a few hours: watch your colleagues have hysterical fits
 of laughter, seizures, gloomy spells, and schizophrenic episodes.
 You might want to up the ante by passing around seasonal masks and/or costumes
 and see the effect they have on everyone: some will chase around the reindeer
 and other might want to have sex with the Santa, the elves or both! The
 pent-up imagination of everyone will come to the for and any combination
 might be possible.
 You should probably not partake in order to fully realise the extent of
 the success.
 If the boss somehow manages to realise what's going on, just point at him
 and shout out loudly `he stole all the Christmas candy!'.
 Your coworkers will do the rest.
 Remember to take pictures and wish everyone a merry last Christmas.
 
\shape slanted
(5 funpoints)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The photocopier/printer 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Putting some color in your office photocopier/printer
\series default

\begin_inset Newline linebreak
\end_inset

This requires a little bit of work from beforehand.
 There are many ways in which you can put color in your office's bland photocopi
er and/or printer, and make it appropriately festive right before the last
 holidays.
 You could replace the usual graphite in the toner cartridge with crayon
 dust, either from pastels or from colored pencils, it should work both
 ways.
 The best way to get that dust is to use a blender (as seen on the Will-it-blend
 YouTube hit), and then simply mix everything together inside the cartridge.
 You can then make funny, colored photocopies or prints of your (or others')
 body parts,especially genitalia; you should also try pornographic images,
 wild animals copulating and all sorts of funny and festive pics.
 Print a thousand or more, fill up the queues and exhaust the paper supply;
 start sharing the strangely colored pictures around the office.
 If anyone asks you to stop or thinks you're crazy and tries to confront
 you about it, have a small supply of that toner & crayon dust mix handy
 in a pocket.
 Blow it in his face and start shouting that this is the last time to enjoy
 a colourful Christmas, because it will be everyone's last.
 
\shape slanted
(2 funpoints)
\shape default

\begin_inset Newline linebreak
\end_inset

Another way is to turn the photocopy machine into a carefully created fun-trap:
 place an open tin of acrylic or oil paint (something difficult to thin
 or clean up) in a way that blocks the paper feeder (the rolling bits inside).
 Make sure it carefully rests on the access door of the photocopier printer,
 the one that needs to be opened to unjam paper.
 Send a print through the printer or try to make a photocopy.
 Act helpless and cry havoc when the paper is jammed, especially if you're
 the one that usually handles these types of mishaps in the office.
 When someone volunteers to help, watch the paint splash all over the insides
 of the machine and the surprised coworker.
 Have buckets of paint ready in a handy place so as to start a paint-fight
 in the office.
 If your boss or anyone else disagrees with the spontaneous, child-like
 manner of fun you're having, throw them a whole bucket of paint and start
 shouting `no more Santa Claus for anyone', before you start running, splashing
 paint any chance you get at people, furniture, staircases, elevators, etc.
 
\shape slanted
(4 funpoints)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Start a fire
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First of all, make sure there are working fire extinguishers or a building-wide
 fire suppression system installed; you don't want to make this too early
 a last Christmas and die horribly in a fire.
 It doesn't need to be large enough to consume the whole building and spread
 rapidly to the rest of the city or town: all you need is a wastebasket
 full of paper, some lighter fluid or medical alcohol and you're set.
 Pour the lighter fluid onto the wastebasket and light it up.
 Before you know it, you'll have a flaming basket in your hands.
 There are a couple of ways you could use that:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Set it under the Christmas tree
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Carry it around asking if someone wants to play a little one-on-one of office
 basketball
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Throw it on a random desk and apologise for making a mess
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Start crying to attract attention and when people notice the burning basket
 tell them you just had to burn that winning lottery ticket
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Present to someone as a gift for the holidays
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If the wastebasket is metallic, the fire should extinguish itself once the
 paper is burnt.
 If it's made of plastic or other flammable/toxic materials, the fire might
 spread and toxic fumes might also become present.
 You should take care to at least position yourself near the fire exit if
 the fire gets out of control.
 If it does you can:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Help the others put it out and make comments about how unimportant this
 fire would be in comparison with the giant firestorms from the supervolcanoes
 that will erupt next year
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Help evacuate the office making sure to hug each and every person telling
 them you're so happy they're alive to live their last Christmas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Use the fire exit and calmly walk outside as if you haven't got a clue about
 the fire
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Setting the fire initself is worth 3 funpoints.
 Each separate fire-related activity is worth 2 funpoints.
 That's a lot of funpoints with fire there folks!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Taking care of your boss
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Your boss is a special case; everyone's boss is a special case.
 The main problem is that in all likelihood, because no boss ever actually
 listens to what you have to say, once you broach the subject of the world
 about to end in the next year, and this Christmas being the last, he will
 simply nod and ask you to send him a memo, circulate the relevant report,
 or mention it in the next meeting.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Even if that's not exactly the case and you simply get shouted at for lollygaggi
ng and asking for a raise again, the problem remains the same: your boss
 is completely cut off from his surroundings.
 He cannot be reached, not even by e-mail or phone.
 He is impervious to employees.
 That means that you will most probably be unable to make him see things
 your way.
 It also means you can't have him helping around with all the fun office
 activities because most fun ideas would be against office policy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What remains to do then, is make him understand you're serious.
 To do that, you need to bring in the big guns, which are only three letters
 long: IRS.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That's right.
 The Internal Revenue Service.
 A sure-fire, guaranteed way to have your boss sweating, panicking, acting
 strangely and being whole-heartedly ready to sign a pact with the devil
 himself to save his money from the government.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are two ways to actually have the IRS pay a visit, especially right
 before the holidays and the end of the year:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Find out the dirty laudry and place an anonymous call - mention a danish
 buffet
\series default

\begin_inset Newline linebreak
\end_inset

Now we all know there is no way in hell your boss is one hundred percent
 legitimate, clean as a whistle, or virgin like Mary Poppins when it comes
 to business finance.
 Even if he means well, there's a very wide room for error.
 An IRS audit is bound to find something bad with him, which is their job.
 And the reason why your boss is scared of them.
 That's where the danish part comes in; placing an anonymous call and giving
 them a tip wouldn't work because the IRS would find something wrong in
 any case - that's not what they want to hear.
 The magic word is danish.
 Once an IRS phone operator hears the word being mentioned, a stand-by team
 is alerted and every sort of vehicle appropriation is green-lighted.
 Once you promise them some danishes, they'll be there within the hour,
 no matter what.
 Just make sure there is a handy supply of danishes.
 No other pastry will do: it has to be danishes.
 Once the IRS is gone, your boss will have been reduced to a nervous wreck
 and even give you a reliable phone number for the LSD if you ask.
\shape slanted
(1 funpoint)
\shape default

\begin_inset Newline linebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Disguise yourself into an IRS agent
\series default

\begin_inset Newline linebreak
\end_inset

This might look a bit difficult or tricky, but it's plain sailing from the
 start.
 Remember, your boss doesn't actually ever hear what you have to say.
 In fact, your boss rarely acknowledges your existence, and even when he
 does, your face is nondescript.
 As far as your boss is concerned, you have the same face as every other
 employee.
 It is impossible for him to remember your face.
 And that's your ticket in as an IRS agent.
 All you need is a black suit and a blue-and-black striped tie.
 Make sure all exits are locked, and especially windows.
 Try to limit the amount of chairs or heavy object in the vicinity of your
 boss's office.
 It is certainly a plus if you're situated on a high-rise building.
 Then simply pick up the phone and dial your boss.
 When he finally picks up all you need to say is `The IRS are here to see
 you'.
 Then just barge into his office: if he's still there and he hasn't tried
 to throw himself out of the window, announce yourself as `IRS'.
 Before he has a chance to stutter, simply tell him everything about the
 world coming to an end, and this being the last Christmas.
 If he asks about backtaxes and hidden fees, tell him this will be his last
 Christmas and his last audit.
 Once he calms down from the excitement, ask him to help you with any of
 the fun activities you've planned for the office.
 
\shape slanted
(3 funpoints)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It's your choice whether or not you share with him the truth about the last
 Christmas; if you choose to, you will find him to be most receptive to
 everything you might want to do in the office.
 Even more than just helpful, he might be happy to pitch in some ideas of
 his own.
 After all, he's not a bad guy; he's just the one with all the troubles
 in the world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are possibly many other ways to take care of your boss, from cutting
 his brake fluid lines, to hiring a hobo with a shotgun to take care of
 him.
 But that doesn't help your fun factor - it only takes away a man who might
 prove useful helping you turn the office into a last Christmas playground
 right before the holidays.
 Remember, it's all about making this last Christmas the best Christmas
 of your life: a dead boss might make you happy for a while, but a boss
 who comes up with the idea of bringing in strippers and coke to the office
 and is happy to pay for it, is a real gem you wouldn't want to miss for
 the world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Last minute office checklist before the holidays
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Is everyone's personal items mixed up in various desks?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Is there alcohol in the water dispenser?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Are there signs of fire around the office?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Is your boss feeling generous?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Is everyone drunk?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Is everyone high on drugs?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Are there colours everywhere around the office?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Are there pictures of genitalia strewn around?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Are there people having sex on the photocopier machine?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Is there an orgy going on?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Is the guy no-one really likes tied down with duct-tape on a flaming chair?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Have you taken as much paper supplies as physically possible?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you've answered yes to only one of those questions, you get one (1) extra
 funpoint.
 If you've answered yes to up to five answers, then you get three (3) extra
 funpoints.
 If you've answered yes to all of them, you've started off with the best
 of intentions for the greatest last Christmas ever, and you receive five
 (5) extra funpoints! Keep it up, and whether or not the world is going
 to end in one year, you'll remember this Christmas for the rest of you
 short lives!
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
In the family
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The kids
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Your own
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Your sister's
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Nephew's and nieces
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Other peoples' kids
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The bastard
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The one locked in the basement
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The Parents
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The father
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The mother
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The grandparents
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The orphanage
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Your significant other
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The Wife
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The Husband
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The Lover
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The Affair
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The in-laws
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The father-in-law
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The brother(s) and sister(s) in law
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The mother-in-law
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The siblings
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The brother(s)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The sister(s)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The half-brother(s) and half-sister(s)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The relatives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The favorite uncle
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The crazy uncle no one talks about
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The hippie relatives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The smug rich relatives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Relatives you've only seen in photographs
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Lost Relatives
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
With friends
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Not just friends: brothers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Sharing the truth with them - spreading the knowledge
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Helping each other set everything up
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Drinking binges and whorehouses
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Getting your virgin best buddy laid
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Getting tickets for the game
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Just Friends
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
That friend that's always following you around
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
That friend that never shuts up
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
That friend who is trying to have sex with your significant other
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
That friend who is trying to have sex with you
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
That friend of a friend
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Acquaintances
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Old flames
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
From your school days
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
From your college days
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
From your previous work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Someone you met on the bus
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
That guy that looks familiar
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
The neighbors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The nice ones
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
That nice couple across the street
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The single-parent family
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The just-married couple
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The pesky ones
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The old couple
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The retired colonel
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The professor
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The hunter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The gun-nut
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The useful ones
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The recreational pharmaceutical substance dealer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The cop
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The fireman
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The doctor
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
In public
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
People
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Shoppers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Pregnant Women
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Kids on the street
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Priests
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Cab drivers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Emos
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Mall Santas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Places
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Plazas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Restaurants
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Bars
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Stations & Bus stops
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Stadiums
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Museums
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Cinemas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Malls
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
Institutions & Organizations
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Educational
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Schools
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Colleges
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Public Libraries
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Health
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Hospitals
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Paramedics
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Funeral Parlors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Utility
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The power company
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The water company
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The phone company
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Government
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The Armed Forces
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The Unholy Triad
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
The Sheriff's Office
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Washington, DC
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
On the internet
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Social networks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Random chat with strangers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Ideas for spam
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Forums
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
The Christmas Dinner
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The appetizers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The salads
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The turkey
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The desserts
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
The drinks
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
Fun activities for everyone
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Indoors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Outdoors
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Illegal & probably dangerous
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
Dealing with the Aftermath
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Getting fired
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Getting divorced or separated
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Getting shot at
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Getting disavowed
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Getting arrested
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Getting injured
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Getting married
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
It's not the end of the world (yet!)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
How to spend the last 360 days of your life
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Narrowly escaping the end of the world
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Was your last Christmas the best in your life?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
Checklists, Appendices, and Useful Tables
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset index_print
LatexCommand printindex
type "idx"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset FloatList table

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage pagebreak
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\align center
I hope no one will take this seriously, or there will be blood on my hands.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
