

Lillies on the Niger

a story in the forgotten Land of the Rising Sun

by Vasileios Kalampakas

Aug 4, 2011




Published by Vasileios Kalampakas

Copyright © 2011 Vasileios Kalampakas





ISBN : 





Printed on demand through createspace.com



Available in print by Amazon Inc. and other retailers

Available in e-book form from http://www.stoneforger.com, the 
Amazon Kindle store, and other online retailers. 



You can reach the author at this e-mail address:



kalampakas@stoneforger.com



Written and typeset with the LyX document processor 

from http://www.lyx.org





Cover made with the aid of the 

GNU Image Manipulation program 

from http://www.gimp.org



Cover art by





This time written with a plan in mind





Table of Contents








Thanks

 Thanks to Minas Pergantis for editing this one (or maybe botching 
the job)




Elemental, united in vision

of present and future,

the pure line, whose innocence

denies inhibitions.

At confluences, of planes, the angle:

man loses man, loses vision;

- Christopher Okigbo, Lament of the Lavender Mist












Dedicated to my brother, Nikos.





In her Majesty’s service

Sweat ran freely down the red-haired Englishman’s temples, 
smearing the jungle camo on his clean-shaven face. A knife blade 
covered in dry mud sat in his left hand, while his other hand 
made a rough circle in the air. It was a hand signal for the 
command to encircle the target.

Five men melted away into the green humid jungle in a heartbeat, 
as if they had been an optical illusion. They moved fast; faster 
than what Ethan had believed them capable of. He decided to stand 
back for a little while more, and see how they could handle their 
approach on their own.

All of them stopped dead in their tracks and hunched low when 
they heard noise, probably from the direction of the clearing up 
ahead. The two men that formed the edge of the squad aimed their 
rifles outwards from the squad, as if a switch had been thrown. 
The point man laid himself flat with the silken grace of a cat, 
knife drawn in his right hand while his left hand reached out for 
his Browning nine millimeter. The rearguard moved like a pair of 
dancers, covering each other’s back, both aiming their rifles 
from shoulder-high, safeties clicked off to single-shot 
selection.

In that cautious small diamond formation they moved as a whole, 
each step forward made with practiced ease and well-earned 
confidence, the mark of a well-trained soldier. For all intends 
and purposes, and as far as Ethan was concerned, he had done a 
good job training them. What did bother him though was that they 
had yet to fire a shot in anger. He knew that nothing tests a man 
like real combat.

Though they moved precisely as they had been taught, and seemed 
quick and stealthy enough, Ethan couldn’t really tell if they 
just went through the motions or if they were really up for the 
challenge. After all, no matter how much one practices before a 
show, it’s the opening night that makes or breaks it.

Ethan’s free hand was wrapped tightly around a metal L-shaped 
trigger attached to a small box no larger than a pack of 
cigarettes, from which a run of cables protruded and got lost 
somewhere under the rich jungle tapestrie of green and brown. 
With a tight grin, Ethan whispered to himself with the 
expectation of a job well done:

“Showtime, lads.”

When he double-clicked the trigger the first thing that attracted 
everyone's attention were the flashes. And then came the 
shockwaves, their force pummeling at everyone, making every 
ribcage vibrate intensely as if tremors had seized them. And that 
was just the opening note.

Small gun fire erupted from various well-placed locations, the 
muzzle flashes dotting the lavish scenery as if hundreds of 
photographers clicked in rapid succession.

The scouts instantly dived for cover, falling prone while keeping 
their arcs of fire fimly fixed to their own particular zone of 
responsibility. A wry smile formed on Ethan’s face: he seemed to 
be enjoying the performance.

The five trainees were on their bellies, rolling and crawling 
over the jungle bed in an effort to find as much cover as 
possible in mere moments. They exchanged quick glances and made 
repetitive hand motions to each other, communicating silently 
trying to establish a point where they could fall back away from 
the guns blazing at them.

Every tree trunk and low bush or gully counted for gold at times 
like these, and the five Marine scouts from the 3rd Marine 
division made excellent use of their surroundings. Very much so 
that Ethan felt a twang of pride at seeing his handiwork in 
action. They were his men, and they seemed every bit as 
professional as he intended them to be.

They quickly abandoned their exposed position for a slightly 
shallow depression with good cover, fat tree trunks strewn around 
them with thick bush for cover and a clear view on all sides. A 
defendable position from which they could easily spot a move 
against them and fall back while they harassed their enemy firing 
and moving in turns. Ethan’s mind flashed with the sudden 
realisation they were good enough to be Royal Marine scouts, not 
just Nigerian troops.

He almost felt a hint of regret he couldn’t be there with them 
when it really mattered, when the guns pointing towards them were 
not loaded with blanks; when the explosive charges half a mile 
away were real shells and mortars falling right on them. 

Almost, as Ethan reminded himself inside his head, was the 
eminent keyword: This was not his war, not by a far chance, and 
setting up mock engagements such as this one was as close as he 
wanted to get to another war zone. Except for the times when he 
itched, except for the times he woke up in the middle of the 
night drenched in sweat, knowing it wasn’t the tropical heat that 
left him sleepless thereafter, but faces all too well remembered 
and defined.

The team of five men had dug themselves in taking solid cover. 
The gunfire died down soon afterwards, and Ethan believed there 
was no point in continuing tracking and crossing the jungle. He 
had seen what he wanted to see, and that was a team of scouts, 
not a bunch of gung-ho Nigerians hollering with rifles raised 
firing on auto, vying for Igbo blood.

Ethan raised himself above the brushes and bellowed as if he 
wanted the cadets back at Sandhurst to hear him clear as rain:

“End of session! Fine job lads!”

The team of five gave no sign of sight or sound that they had 
heard their instructor. Ethan repeated himself with less 
enthusiasm:

“Come on, games’ over! Let’s head back for some rest, off we go.”

Still, nothing could be now heard other than the usual sounds of 
the jungle, the distant cries of birds and monkeys, and the 
constant buzzing of mosquitoes and other assorted exotic insects.

Ethan furrowed his brow and briefly considered that the team 
might have actually extracted themselves without him noticing, 
and decided to check the small depression himself. With a hurried 
pace, he made his way through the brush and in a few moments 
reached the position he had last seen them take cover in.

He saw no-one, but suddenly felt a piece of metal poking him 
through his left side, right between his ribs, poised to pierce 
his heart at a single thrust. He had been caught unawares, and 
once he looked sideways to his assailant, he saw Onko, the team 
scout leader smiling wildly, his bright white teeth a stark 
contrast to his camouflaged dark face. A little stunned and a 
little bit surprised, Ethan barely had time to let off a curse:

“Bugger me, you’ve grown into a real scout Idowu.”

No longer wearing the same disarming smile, the nigerian marine 
responded with a heavy accent, the nigerian pronunciation thick 
and strong:

“You grow soft, Captain Whittmore.”

Onko then sheathed his knife, and the four other men suddenly 
appeared from quite unlikely and widespread places, from any one 
of which they could have put a bullet through Ethan at their 
leisure.

Ethan nodded and made a small sigh, as if acknowledging he had 
indeed let his guard down and been overcome, exactly what he 
tought his recruits should never happen, not even while not in 
the battlefield. Cultivating a little paranoia went a long way in 
keeping a man alive, especially in a civil war where telling a 
friend from an enemy was not as clean a business as shooting at 
one.

Ethan did manage to save some face though when he pointed at his 
feet to a small bump in the ground, leaves cluttered all over it 
and said:

“See now Ibrahim, that’s a mark for a landmine. You might have 
killed at least one man when you chose to fall back here.”

Onko seemed far from smiling at that comment, and with a mixed 
expression midpoint between anger and disappointment he said to 
Ethan, making it sound almost like an accusation:

“There was no place else to fall back and cover, Captain. It was 
a death trap then, for sure. What could we have done different? 
Not fair, sir.”

The word `sir’ had a strange ring to it, and that probably was 
because it was meant to sound off-putting. Ethan only cared to 
answer briefly right before he turned about and started walking 
to the gathering area of the training field:

“All’s fair in love and war, sergeant. Says so somewhere, I’m 
pretty sure of that.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

In the warm light of neon orange, Ethan searched his pockets for 
the some small change, but to no avail. He rarely needed dimes 
and pennies when he made his cosmopolitan visits to the center of 
Lagos, but using the jukebox in Louis’s bar was such an occasion, 
and even more so a favourite habit.

In fact, Ethan was not a rare visitor to Louis’s establishment, 
and most would instantly recognise him. He was widely known as 
the Englishman, both to the few locals and the numerous 
extraordinary foreigners that frequented the Metropolitaine.

Ethan maintained that he only came for the regularly up-to-date 
jukebox, whilst his tab indicated a thirsty sort of music lover 
with a certain taste for fine malts.

Malts such as the unusually fine scotch that Louis kept stashed 
for the well-off or even well-liked customer. He had simply 
decided to thank God there was good scotch to be found in a place 
like Nigeria and even more so in a bar like Louis’s. To make the 
realisation even more mind-numbing for Ethan, there was good 
scotch to be found during what the Nigerian government chose to 
characterise as a `crisis’. The Metropolitaine’s crude and shanty 
decoration, or more appropriately its blatant lack thereof only 
helped to somehow accentuate that a war was going on.

A couple of ceiling fans still worked despite what one might 
expect at first sight, barely keeping the air from going stale.

It was with his usual wide grin that Louis, the proprietor, 
approached Ethan and offered him a penny before bowing slightly, 
impeccably dressed in a striped jacket, white pressed shirt, 
bowtie and smart pants, an air of the thirties Paris about him. 
Ethan accepted the coin gladly and immediately dropped it in the 
slot, while Louis chimed in his blatantly french but not 
unbearable accent:

“Compliments of the house, Capitain. The usual? Little ice, 
double fine scotch?”

Ethan smiled wryly and nodded while selecting a song in the 
jukebox, his index finger searching for the correct button to 
press. He pushed `Under my thumb’, and turned to reply to Louis 
before setting off to settle in his usual bar stool, the bar 
solely at his disposal at that hour:

“Very fine scotch.”

“Nothing but Scotland’s finest, Mr. Whittmore.”

Ethan sat on the bar stool, his eyes staring at the glasses and 
various bottles of liquor neatly arrayed and featuring 
prominently in the shelves behind the bar. When he next spoke, it 
was with a feeling of relief:

“I’d never thought I’d say this, but God bless Nigeria.”

Louis had assumed his proper place behind the bar when he picked 
up a bottle of one of his finest malts from a cupboard below 
along with a short glass, and said smiling wryly while he poured:

“I’m from Guiana though.”

“Ah, and Scotch is from Scotland but it knows no borders. Come on 
then, pour one yourself.”

The unusually tall, lank bartender complied and picked up a shot 
glass which he filled promptly and raised to a toast:

“To all the thirsty men.”

The Rolling Stones song had started playing in the background. 
Ethan raised his own glass of scotch and made a toast as well:

“To Mick Jagger and crew.”

They both gulped down their drinks in one go. Ethan made a slight 
motion with one hand, indicating the cupboard below.

Louis went through the motions of pouring another glass of scotch 
and asked his regular customer for the past year or so with his 
usual air of cool affection:

“How’s life treating you?”

Ethan’s tone was lighthearted, almost flippant when he said:

“Not sure. Better than horseshit? I’m not complaining though. 
Still ’ere, aren’t I?”

Louis laughed politely and nodded before replying:

“Woe be me if something should happen to you. Losing customers, I 
cannot afford that?”

“You’re not losing me soon enough. Keep the scotch coming, and 
I’ll manage.”

Louis let the glass of scotch slide across the wooden bar and 
looked Ethan straight in the eye, his face almost a pale shade of 
dark under the dim candlelight surrounding the bar:

“What news from your friends in high places?”

Ethan shook his head and made a strange, sour face for a moment. 
He brought the glass to his lips, sniffing the aromas:

“Nothing yet. It’s not easy, you knew that. Not to mention 
there’s money involved. But it’ll take time Louis. Your visa 
isn’t exactly top priority.”

Louis shook his head in disappointment, and started polishing a 
basket full of washed glasses. His eyes were fixed to the task at 
hand when he replied to Ethan with a mixed feeling of sadness and 
slight aggravation, his movements lacking his usual crispness and 
finesse:

“You said by the end of the month, Englishman. Said you knew the 
`ins and outs’, didn’t you? Who will keep Insami and Wadu off my 
back, I wonder. Make it top priority, can you?”

Ethan kept wearing the same smile that had won him arguments on 
innumerable occasions, while he kept tapping his fingers to the 
rhythm of the song playing from the jukebox. After a short 
uncomfortable silence, he said to Louis:

“It must feel like a kick in the nuts, Louis, but remember, I’m 
doing you a favor. Take a look around you. There’s bigger trouble 
than those two thugs. There’s a war going on. If they do pop up 
and act like a couple of tough guvs, I’ll make sure they get one 
in the sack and lose a couple of teeth each. No use worrying 
about it now.”

Louis looked a bit distraught, his eyes somewhat dull from 
wariness. Ethan tried to change the subject:

”What do you have for me this time? Auchentoshan? Glenfiddich? ”

Louis became his professional self again; he seemed to relax a 
bit, his tense mouth loosening into a tight smile. He reached for 
a tall cupboard with a lock on the handles, and used a small key 
that hung from a chain around his neck. He opened the cupboard 
with small, graceful movements of his hands, as if opening an 
icon or a shrine. In it, a dozen bottles of Littlemill sat, dusty 
and squat, seemingly quite authentic seal, cork and all. At the 
sight of the bottles of scotch and the prospect of savouring them 
at his leisure, Ethan’s face lit up and his blue eyes seemed for 
a moment to sparkle. His voice couldn’t contain his enthusiasm:

“Littlemill? Thirty-two years old, triple distillation. Bugger 
me, oldest malt in Scotland. Let me see that bottle.”

Louis complied even though anyone could tell from his face he was 
quite puzzled. Ethan was usually interested in the contents, not 
the labels.

“Here you go, Englishman.”

Ethan completely disregarded the bartender’s effort at a 
light-hearted insult and studied the bottle’s labels with focused 
interest. At length, he nodded appreciatively before adding:

”From Ayrshire, too.”

Louis asked with real curiosity while opening the bottle of 
Littlemill Ethan was still clutching like a scepter:

“Is that the place for the best scotch?”

Ethan let go of the bottle and while Louis put a single cube of 
ice in Ethan’s glass, he continued, his expression emanating a 
scholarly aura:

“’Tis the ancestral birthplace of the greatest scot that ever 
lived. William Wallace.”

The name of the famous Scottish hero was intoned with reverence 
and pride. It seemed to have no effect on the Guinean bartender 
who casually asked:

“Who is he?”

Ethan blinked twice and was taken slightly aback when the name of 
the greatest Scotsman that ever lived rang no bell. He 
nevertheless straightened his back and breathed deeply when he 
tried to explain to Louis.

“William Wallace fought the English for the freedom of Scotland 
for over a dozen years. They killed his wife and family and in 
the end he was betrayed. He gave his all, William Wallace. 
Biggest set of stones ever.”

Louis looked at Ethan in puzzlement as he uncorked the fine 
scotch, its smoky aroma wafting upwards, arousing the senses. His 
question seemed to flatten Ethan’s face right at the moment his 
nostrils had become so excited:

“But Scotland isn’t free. You serve the Queen of England.”

“That’s not entirely true, I serve the Queen of the United 
Kingdom.”

“But there’s no Queen of the Scots, is there?”

“She’s also Queen of the Scots. And the Welsh. And the Irish. 
Well, at least some of the Irish.”

“See, that’s not unlike the situation here in Nigeria. The Igbo 
are like the Scots, they want to be free. Shouldn’t they be free?”

“I don’t have a say in that. It’s not my job, and it’s not my 
people. If they can, they will. And if you want to know, my 
father might have been born in Glasgow but I grew up in 
Kensington, so piss off with the Scots and all that. Pour, for 
the love of God.”

Louis smiled wryly before he retorted:

“You brought it up, Captain.”

Ethan was starting to get properly wound up when the door bell 
rang and attracted his attention. He looked up from his drink and 
saw Louis pointing with his long bony index finger to a sturdy, 
tall and fit black man dressed in fatigues, the beret of the 
Nigerian Marine Corps smartly adorning his head. The man’s eyes 
peered vehemently through the haze and fog of the smoke and dust 
that seemed to always twirl lazily in the Metropolitaine.

The soldier’s gaze quickly settled on Ethan, who was spinning 
around on his bar stool to look at the newcomer directly. He 
cracked a smile and gave a mocking half-salute to the burly man 
who - judging by his epaulets - appeared to be a brevet Major. 
The man did not seem to share the same good humor and did not 
salute, neither did he seem to enjoy smiles and levity a lot. As 
he approached the bar, Ethan’s mood had swung again towards his 
sweet side and he cheerfully made a gesture at the still open 
cupboard full of Littlemill, greeting the man with a proposition:

“James, this is a once in a lifetime chance for a once in a 
lifetime experience. It’s Littlemill. It’s the nectar of the 
Gods. It’ll be monumental James; getting plastered with the 
finest scotch in the whole country, with little doubt. So, what 
is the unhappy occassion of your visit here in uniform? Tell me 
all about it so I can forget it with the help of Louis and 
Littlemill. Is it remotely serious? Are the Biafrans hurtling 
shells at Lagos? Can I go home now?”

The heavily set man had a quite intimidating appearance. The 
capability of severely wounding a man armed with nothing but his 
hands was the usual first impression. At odds with his brutal 
image he had a strangely calm and serene demeanor, a grim look on 
his face that implied his mind was occupied with grave matters. 
He approached Ethan and taking off his beret he calmly said:

“It’s your brother, Ethan. We have reports their caravan was 
probably attacked today. Somewhere in the jungle near the border. 
They never reached Owerri.”

Ethan’s smile evaporated. He suddenly looked somber and 
withdrawn. The news were a mood killer to say the least. He 
looked at James with wary, stern eyes:

“Red Cross is supposed to have Army support. Where was their 
support, James?”

James’ bulky shoulders shook with a disarmingly vulnerable shrug. 
He embraced Ethan with a single arm and told him in a friendly, 
casual manner:

“Let’s have a drink, Ethan. Let’s talk.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

Business in the Metropolitaine was in full swing. A small gang of 
sailors were celebrating one of their mates birthday, following 
the custom of drinking till the botswain comes looking for them. 
Louis kept a wary eye on a couple of strange-looking figures, but 
other than that the orders kept coming in and that made him a 
happy man.

Ethan was sitting opposite James at a small round metal table in 
a corner near the bar, looking far from jovial. What James had 
told him had suddenly turned this war into a personal matter, 
something that every professional soldier tried to avoid. A 
well-known but sadly overlooked factor in dying was doing stupid 
things for all the wrong reasons, and making a war something 
personal was both stupid and wrong.

James had fallen silent for a couple minutes silently sipping at 
his wine, a local plonk variety that barely passed the mark. 
Ethan was down to his last couple of cigarettes, chain-smoking 
ever since they had sat down to talk. At length, Ethan broke the 
uncomfortable silence:

“I should have pulled some strings when he told me he was going 
in with the Red Cross. Red tape, paperwork, passport trouble. 
Surely someone you know in the Interior could have been of some 
help. Maybe forced him to stay in Britain, somehow. Don’t know, 
really.”

James motioned a definite `no’ with his head, eyes closed shut. 
He then had another sip before answering:

“You know there are many ways to come into Nigeria. If your 
brother wanted to come, he would have found his own. There’s 
nothing you could have really done to prevent him from coming 
here in the first place.”

Ethan drew heavily on his cigarette and exhaled briskly. He spoke 
with some irritation:

“True enough, that. Maybe you could have detained him when their 
caravan set off for Biafra? I could have spoken some more sense 
into him. It doesn’t matter now, does it?”

James was as calm as before, answering with a flat and 
emotionless voice, trying to calm down Ethan as well:

“Not a Red Cross caravan. How would it look in the papers if 
Nigeria blocked the Red Cross? It would look like we want to let 
children die of dysentery and famine. No, we could not have told 
your brother to just stay put. It was not my job, and not yours 
either. It was his choice, his life.”

Ethan put out his cigarette, drank the rest of his drink in one 
go and made a gesture with his empty glass to Louis who seemed to 
notice almost immediately. Ethan then looked straight into James’ 
eyes; a set of dark eyes accented by the small bit of white that 
surrounded them. He tried to calm himself and find the 
appropriate words:

“You are right about that.. Maybe I should have just whipped him 
good like when we were still ten years old. But he’s a grown man, 
a doctor no less. He has his duties, his obligations. Like I have 
my own. Though I still think it was a stupid thing to do, at 
least he acted like the man he’s supposed to be. He wanted to 
help, he signed up with the Red Cross. Never really saw meself 
how lying down on the grass all day long, smoking grass and 
fucking like rabbits could stop people from dying. Still, a 
stupid move coming here.”

There was a pause. Louis was returning to their table with 
Ethan’s refill of Littlemill and a clean ashtray. Ethan nodded 
his thanks to Louis who in turn bowed slightly and fleeted off to 
serve some other table. James had rested his arms on their table, 
his frame too large to comfortably seat himself in the 
Metropolitaine’s plain chairs. Ethan took a mouthful of 
Littlemill and flinched when he felt the malt burn down his 
throat and into his stomach. He then went on:

”I know, war’s no place for idealists and romantics. That’s 
probably why I’m still alive. That, and an awful amount of luck, 
I’d wager. Maybe Andy’s doing a better job than I ever could. I 
mean, in the grander scheme of things, him being a doctor and all 
that. Can’t really tell why I didn’t stop him. I just couldn’t, 
you know?”

James blinked languidly and sipped the last bit of his wine. He 
set his glass down with a clang before replying:

“Someone has to try and save the world. People like your brother 
think they can. Like every hero should.”

James grunted with a hint of disapproval and Ethan grimaced with 
slight annoyance at that contemptive gesture. He lit up one of 
the last cigarettes in his pack and inhaled thoroughly:

“Well, I wouldn’t know. I’m not exactly in the business of saving 
people, am I? You could say we’re sort of antagonists, me and 
Andy. Kind of reminds me, we used to be in opposite teams when we 
balled.”

“I didn’t know you play cricket.”

“Haven’t ever since I got a leg injury in Kenya. Nasty business 
that was. Almost got meself killed. Young, stupid and rash. Also, 
quite a lucky bastard.”

James expression seemed to change somewhat. He removed his hands 
from the table and for a moment sat still, looking at Ethan 
intensely. He then ordered another drink from Louis, who seemed 
to keep a watchful eye at their table more so than the others and 
nodded promptly, disappearing at the back for a couple of 
minutes. When James spoke next, he was lighting up Ethan’s last 
cigarette, Ethan affording nothing but a stunned surprise and a 
deep furrow:

“Were you any good at it?”

“What, cricket? I thought you didn’t smoke.”

“I’m a man of many talents. And some vices as well.”

“Well, I hope you’re not a Rolling Stones fan as well. It’d be a 
real crime to find out you’ve been hiding that too.”

James drew on his cigarette and threw his head back, letting off 
a small cloud of smoke. He was smiling when he pointed to Ethan 
and said:

“Not much to hide, Ethan. Sometimes I smoke. Usually alone.”

Ethan nodded with a sly grin on his face. He sipped another 
mouthful from his glass of scotch which was disappearing fast. 
James was toying with the ice in his glass when a slight grin 
formed on his face, droplets of sweat running down his forehead, 
glistening dimly in the hazy, poor lighting of the 
Metropolitaine:

“A better chance than cricket, true enough. A bad leg won’t leave 
you behind.”

“It isn’t just the bad leg. I’m not a cricket fan really. Andy 
loves it though. At least as a kid he did. Used to drag me along. 
The bad leg is just a reminder.”

James seemed to stiffen suddenly. He straightened his back before 
reaching for his glass, his voice a bit shallow and distant:

“Which is worse, Ethan? The memories, or the leg?”



“It’s the memories alright. Hadn’t seen him in four years. Rarely 
called. Never wrote. He must’ve thought I couldn’t care less. But 
it’s the job, you know? The distance.”

James interjected mildly:

“The scotch too?”

Ethan drained his glass, as if a real thirst was driving him and 
answered:

“That too.”

James was looking at him through bloodshot eyes, his glass of 
wine empty once more. He sat upright in his chair, drew audibly 
through his large nostrils on the thick air of the Metropolitaine 
and made a hand signal for another round of drinks, making sure 
that Louis brought two glasses of Littlemill. Ethan’s gaze was 
fixed on the ceiling fan above them. He looked distantly 
thoughtful, grim and withdrawn, far from his usual self. He 
turned his eyes to his empty glass and spoke with a touch of 
anger behind each sentence:

“I need to find my brother. I’ve never left a man behind in my 
life. Brought everyone back. I can’t leave me own brother behind. 
It’s Andy for God’s sake, hasn’t hurt a fly in his life.”

James seemed at once somber and surprised, his eyes narrowing 
dangerously:

“Ethan, there’s a war going on. What is on your mind?”

Ethan picked up their drinks from Louis’ passing tray in mid-air, 
and replied:

”Go look after him. Find him. Bring him back.”

James shook his head disapprovingly:

“A fool’s errand. Even if he’s alive, it could get you killed. 
The both of you.”

“It’s not an errand and I’m no fool either, I’m a scot. From my 
mother’s side.” 

James stare had begun to pierce through Ethan’s eyes, casting a 
gaze hard as stone upon him: “You must be out of your mind,” he 
said in a hushed voice.

Ethan shrugged indifferently and retorted:

“I’ve done more than my fair share of mistakes. I know this isn’t 
one.”

James voice had a slow quality about it that showed his 
determination:

“You’ll need all the help you can get then. If it’s going to have 
any meaning or chance of success.”

Ethan cracked a smile and drank a tiny sip of Littlemill, 
noticing he was almost out of scotch. Louis then appeared out of 
nowhere with the grace of a dancer. He offered them the bottle of 
Littlemill he had opened earlier. There was barely enough scotch 
in it for just another drink. 

“Gentlemen, compliments of the house. And you can keep the bottle 
too, if you like.”

Ethan nodded his thanks and laughed despite himself, while James 
still sat there looking at Ethan seemingly unable to discern 
whether or not the man was simply drunk and already grieving, 
making up ideas. He asked Ethan, the stress in his voice showing 
he wanted to be convinced:

“You are sure you are going to do this? I want to help. But I 
want to know I’m not risking my neck for some jungle antiques, 
Ethan Whittmore. And it could mean my neck, literally. I need you 
to be deadly serious. All the way.”

Ethan’s reply was as sharp as his pervasive eyes:

“I got nothing left apart from Andy. Nothing that matters anyway. 
Job’s shit nowdays. No wife or kids. He’s all I got, James.”

James shrugged, his large set of shoulders tensing up his 
fatigues almost to the point of tearing. He then told Ethan:

“He could be already dead, you know that. He might be a white 
English doctor, but no matter how useful he may prove to any 
captor, bullets are not very picky.”

Ethan went on, his fists clenching instinctively, his eyes 
shining with a crystal clarity that he rarely exhibited:

“Then I’ll bring back the body to Glasgow and lay him down in the 
ground. I’ll do what I can, James. I’ll do anything.”

James fixed his stare on Ethan, as if he was measuring him up:

“What are you going to do? Quit first thing tomorrow?”

Ethan smiled bitterly and said:

“Maybe I should. They wouldn’t let me though. Operational needs, 
lack of personnel, that sort of thing. The service wants to fuck 
you three ways to Australia if they can. Can’t even put in for 
leave, not at such a short notice. Listen, do you think you could 
arrange some sort of training exercise? Any reason that will 
demand me being attached to somewhere outside Lagos. Gone for a 
week or two. If all goes well, then I’ll see what I’ll do. If 
not, it won’t really matter from then on.”

James took a mouthful of Littlemill without preparing himself. 
Unaccustomed to strong liquor as he was, he looked as if he was 
about to vomit on the spot but he managed to contain himself. He 
shook his head in affirmation and said:

“I can do that. I can do more than that. I can keep you informed; 
give you locations, rumors, troop movements, any intelligence 
that passes through me. Anything that would help you find your 
brother and keep you alive at the same time. I even think I can 
cook up a `real’ operation. We can then use regular radio traffic 
to keep in contact without suspicion.”

“Can you do that? I’ll need to leave as soon as possible. 
Tomorrow night, the day after tomorrow at the latest. I have to 
pack my gear, and maybe borrow a couple of things as well, with 
your help. Then I need to do some itinerary checking.”

“Are you planning to follow the same path as your brother’s 
caravan?”

“Yes, all the way. I’ll start from Lagos, to Benin City, then 
Asaba, through Onitsha and into Biafran territory. From then on, 
it’s Owerri.”

James nodded appreciatively. He asked with a hint of worry in his 
voice:

“What happens when you’re in Biafra? What happens if you find 
your brother?”

“You mean when I find Andy. Bring him back, what else?”

“I mean, how do you plan to do that? What if he’s injured? A 
prisoner, or a hostage? What if he’s weak, wounded or sick? Don’t 
tell me you’ll hitch a ride back or carry him yourself if you 
have to.”

“I will if I have to.”

“Are all scots on their mother’s side as foolish as you? I’ll 
bring a helicopter. We can arrange a landing zone through the 
radio. If we lose contact, we’ll have two pre-determined landing 
zones, at two different times. I hope it doesn’t get to that.”

“You’ll do that?”

“Helicopters fly without flight plans all the time. I don’t have 
pilot wings for show, Ethan.”

Ethan grinned at the hint of mischief. James landed him abruptly 
once more though:

“What are you going to do when you’re inside Biafra though? How 
are you going to run around, an Englishman like you, with no 
papers whatsoever? Or are you just going to let everyone know 
you’re a military advisor for the Nigerians, so they can perhaps 
torture you before shooting you on the spot?”

Ethan seemed a little skeptical, but at length he managed a 
reply:

“I have something in mind for that. I may have a contact, through 
the embassy. An old friend. He might be able to forge some 
papers, make me look legitimate. A photographer, or a journalist. 
Someone who can get in and out with relative impunity.”

“There’s no such thing as impunity. Tolerance maybe. A journalist 
would be a good cover; they’re always looking for sympathy from 
the press.”

Ethan nodded in agreement and paused toughtfully for a few 
moments. He then looked at James as if he knew he was already 
asking too much of his Nigerian friend, but nevertheless went on 
and told him:

“James, you’ve been a good friend while I’m here, helping me ease 
into the situation. We’re like-minded, you are a damned good 
professional if I’ve ever seen one, your cooking’s great but why 
are you doing this for me? It can’t be that you’re risking so 
much at such a time just to help a white man from Scotland. I 
consider you a comrade-in-arms, a friend I wish I can drool with 
over a bottle of scotch when I’m hopefully old enough to pee on 
my pants. But tell me, why exactly are you risking your life and 
career? If it’s about money, I assure you I ..”

James slapped Ethan hard across the face, the shock from the hit 
leaving him dazzled for a while. His voice was like gravel on a 
tin, his face trembling with aggravation:

“You insult me. I come to you as a friend, and you insult me 
thinking me a gold-digger. You have a knack, all the Englishmen 
seem to. You’re so blind to what really is right in front of you. 
I consider you a friend too, so I’ll consider this a slip of the 
tongue. You’re under emotional pressure, you’ve had some drinks. 
I’ll forget you ever said it.”

James exhaled deeply and seemed to calm down. The timbre of his 
voice turned to something affable, a voice unusually soft and 
mellow, full of memory and sentiment:

“You want to know why I want to help you with whatever means at 
my disposal? Because I myself had a brother once. A brother who 
bled his hands so I could grow into the man I am today. A brother 
who buried our parents with his own hands. I lost that brother. I 
lost him and while I could have done something about it, I simply 
watched him go away, never to return. I’ve been in your place 
Ethan. I know you’re doing what I should have done years ago. And 
I want you to find your brother. That, I swear unto God.”

Ethan looked sullen and embarrassed. He cleared his throat before 
saying:

“I’m sorry James. I’m sorry I offended you. You’ve never told me 
much about him.”

James laughed without joy before replying:

“What is there to say, Ethan? Perhaps it was his fate. Like we 
have ours.”

“You believe in fate, then? Think all this is part of it?” 

“It doesn’t matter if I believe. No-one can escape the webs of 
fate, believer or not. We should do well to remember that.”

Ethan emptied the rest of his glass in one go, and pour what 
little was left in the bottle of Littlemill to the both of them. 
He then raised his glass in a toast:

“To Andy.”

And James replied:

“To Enkele.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

The British embassy in Lagos stood out as the typical colonial 
building of the Africas, resplendent and austere, an indubitable 
legacy from the golden years of the Empire. Its tall, thin 
windows shone with the brightness of the noon sun when Ethan 
walked through the front gate saluting the guard on duty only 
perfunctorily. He ran straight up the stairs to the 2nd floor, 
simply ignoring any and all who tried to be of assistance. The 
door of the Director of Cultural Affairs office was half-open. 
Ethan knocked briskly and entered without waiting for an answer.

Once inside, he saw a man in his late fifties, short and 
miniscule. The man wore a thick mustache, had an almost 
completely bald scalp and a pair of old-fashioned ebony-rimmed 
glasses. The label on his desk read `Isidor Bloom - Director of 
Cultural Affairs’. He looked up from his seemingly casual reading 
material and immediately popped a smile. Even though they had 
only occassionally met at a couple of Embassy dinners, he offered 
his hand in a lively, warm way and said:

“How do you do? Jolly good I hope, old friend. Please, do have a 
seat. Now, what was it that you wanted to speak to me about? I 
believe on the phone you said it was an urgent personal matter 
that somehow involved my desk. Would you care to elaborate? I can 
only be of real help if I know what we’re dealing with here, dear 
fellow. In the strictest of confidence, of course.”

Ethan shook the hand but still felt somehow a little out of 
depth, his inherent distrust of spies kicking in despite the 
man’s cordial manner. Unaccustomed to protocol and etiquette, 
Ethan dived straight into the matter and said bluntly:

“Mr. Bloom, I need a cover.”

Isidor Bloom blinked once or twice with an unwavering, somewhat 
unnatural smile, and seemingly quite baffled, replied:

“I beg your pardon, what kind of cover are you talking about Mr. 
Whittmore?”

Before Ethan had time to elaborate, Mr. Bloom had furrowed his 
brow, waving a `no-no’ finger at Ethan. He got up from his chair 
and leisurely closed the door of his office. Ethan could only 
frown with genuine puzzlement while Mr. Bloom sat down again 
comfortably, lit his smoking pipe and had a puff. He then asked 
Ethan while looking him directly in the eye, his gaze strangely 
unnerving:

“Do you ask for a cunt when walking into a brothel, Mr. 
Whittmore? In such delicate matters, a little more room for 
maneuver is usually required. You’d ask for a girl or a woman, 
perhaps even some company. Not for a cunt, which what brothels 
have on offer. Are you following me, son?”

Ethan looked ever more perplexed, especially by the sudden change 
of mood in the middle-aged man. He understood he had been too 
blunt, but while trying to think what to say next and especially 
how to apologise, the public servant leaned closer to Ethan 
before continuing:

“Listen, old chap; everybody knows what we’re doing here and 
everyone, including us, knows we’re just doing pottery and 
traditional art exhibitions. On Thursdays there’s a bagpipe 
night, though. Savvy?”

Ethan nodded numbly despite not actually understanding all too 
well what the man was trying to get at. Mr. Bloom saw the 
confusion written on Ethan’s face and after sighing slightly, 
continued:

“Right. Well then, let’s make things easier for you, and 
expediate the process. Is there someone I can call on your 
behalf? Someone who can help me, help you?”

At that, Ethan replied automatically, as if he had been waiting 
for that question for some time:

“Yes, sir. That would be Ian Ruthers, a personal friend.”

As suddenly as before, Mr. Bloom’s attitude switched back to his 
jovial, well-mannered and quite expedient self. Wearing an almost 
disconcertingly wide grin on his face, he picked up the phone on 
his desk, dialed a single number, and said:

“Hello? Jenny? Put me through to Bristol. Yes, yes, definitely.”

A small wait ensued, which was reason enough for Ethan to start 
sweating even though the temperature inside the room was quite 
pleasant. Mr. Bloom kept smiling and nodding in a reassuring 
fashion, which only accentuated the weird stressful feeling 
anxiety that had overcome Ethan. Mr. Bloom was then heard talking 
over the phone:

“Hello? Leonard? Yes, it’s me Isidor. Long time no see, but it’s 
business again I’m afraid. Is Ruthers one of yours? I see. Is he 
hot right now? No? Ah, splendid. Could you tell him to give me a 
call please? Yes, my office. Well, right about now would be 
indeed a perfect time. I’d like to get on with this before lunch. 
Yes, well she’s fine, working on her garden and all that. How’s 
Marie? Loved her cherry pie last Christmas, marvellous stuff 
really. Would love to, old chap. Have your man call me, alright 
then? Goodbye Leonard, don’t forget to give my regards. Goodbye.”

Once he hang up the phone, Mr. Bloom surprised Ethan once again 
with his choice of words:

“Fucking cunt can sod off. Now, let’s clear up a few things: This 
friend of yours, Ruthers, can sod off as well. If he’s going to 
push something for me down my pipe, that’s fine and all. I don’t 
give fuckall about the why or how. Do you understand that? I’m 
going home to Cheltenham before Christmas, and this desk can rot 
on my piss. And just so that you know, the cock around here 
tastes awful so brush often and have a care with that mouth of 
yours.”

Mr. Bloom put out his pipe, placed it in his shirt pocket, picked 
up his hat and strolled out of his office, careful to smoothly 
close the door behind him.

Ethan stood frozen in his chair, unable to fathom what exactly 
had transpired. The only certainty was that Mr. Bloom had 
probably been for too long in the service. Ethan’s thoughts were 
interrupted by the phone ringing. Hesitating at first but then 
thinking it should be Ruthers on the other end of the phone line, 
Ethan picked up the receiver:

“Hello? Ian? It’s Ethan Whittmore. Well, what can I say? Didn’t 
expect to hear me on this end, did you? What am I doing here? 
Well, first of all -- yes, I know I’m terrible. No, it wasn’t -- 
I know I shouldn’t be even talking to you like this but I need 
some help, Ian. No! I’m not married. Can you be serious for a 
minute? How you’re working for Six I’ll never understand. Well, 
now that I saw the guy in the Nigerian desk perhaps I do 
understand. Listen. Just listen. I need some cover. It’s Andy, my 
brother. I need to go into Biafra. No joke. There will be no 
widow to comfort, so stop being a cunt and help me over here. 
Right, then. A piece of paper? I’m on it.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

James rolled a cigarette. Real imported tobacco, confiscated from 
Customs. A smile, a joke and a tap in the back usually go a long 
way. Especially when you’re six feet tall and slightly less 
stocky than a bull. That was something that Ethan had said when 
they had first met. A piece of wisdom from Britain’s finest.

He lit his cigarette and sat down on a chair across the kitchen 
table. A hefty fish lay half-eaten, its maws showing a slightly 
serrated set of tiny teeth. The smell of roast dominated the room 
and through an open window the grill on the small porch could be 
seen; a few coals were settling down, their heat meaningless in 
the suffocating summer night of Lagos.

A wedding feast was being held down the next street, the gathered 
crowd milling about like a colourful circus troupe, dancing and 
singing with vigor despite everyone being thoroughly drenched in 
sweat. James peered at the small spectacle and stared blankly for 
a minute or two, as if his thoughts were completely disconnected 
with what was going on in front of him.

The crowd brought the groom to the fore, the improptu stage the 
middle of the street, and made a circle around him. He was all 
dressed up, smiling brightly. Everyone showered him with flowers 
and small gifts, while they danced to a deep, rhythmic beat of 
drums. His face seemed to shine almost imperceptibly with a gold 
sheen that somehow looked only natural under the light of the 
torches.

The burning tip of the cigarette fell on James’ arm. He shook 
instinctively, ash marking the spot of the slight burn on his 
skin. His face didn’t flinch though, nor did he seem to notice 
his cigarette was out. The phone in the bedroom was ringing with 
a mindless persistence that only a salesman would envy.

When James finally got up from his chair, the phone was ringing 
again. He stormed outside dressed in nothing but his shorts and 
ran towards the moving wedding feast barefooted. As he ran, he 
ran his tongue across his lips but couldn’t tell his tears from 
his sweat.

Well met on an ill road

“Hello, Richard Owls. London Times. I presume you must be Dr. 
Ludwig Manteuffel. Glad you could take me in on such a short 
notice.”

A somewhat plumb, blond-haired man with a scruffy look and a 
thin, wiry receding hair line looked up from his writing pad 
through thick glasses and saw a red-haired, tall and almost gaunt 
man smiling and squinting under the uncomfortably radiant morning 
sun:

“There’s room for more, actually. Your editor-in-chief was very 
pleasant on the phone, and quite convincing.”

Ethan laughed politely and replied, tilting his head only barely 
so he could shade his eyes at least:

“He’s a wily bastard, I’ll say. When he can tell his arse from 
his elbow that is.”

The doctor extended his hand casually and smiled, a bit puzzled:

“I hope he’s not exhibiting a cognitive disfunction of such 
proportions. It could prove quite problematic in his line of 
work.”

Ethan shook the doctor’s hand with some hesitation, shaking his 
head in ignorance:

“I can’t say I’m quite following you, doctor.”

Dr. Manteuffel wiped the sweat on his forehead with the arm 
holding the writing pad and exhaled briskly with the hint of a 
slight laugh:

“Distasteful doctor’s humor, Mr. Owls. Can I call you Richard? 
Please call me Ludwig, we’ll be on the road together for some 
time. This isn’t exactly a dinner party we’re going to, yes?”

A number of people around them was busy loading the Land Rovers 
with all sorts of crates, bags, and sacks with everything from 
gauzes to canned food and flour. Ethan looked quite accustomed to 
the heat and the Nigerian sun, at odds with the stocky german 
doctor who seemed to be discomforted immensely, even though he 
tried his best not to show it. Ethan nodded with a sparkly grin 
and said:

“Can’t see any drinks on offer, and the timing’s off too. Ludwig, 
then?”

The german doctor motioned with his pad to the paltry shade 
offered by a nearby tent filled with crates stamped with the sign 
of the Red Cross, and Ethan lead eagerly. The doctor replied:

“You can also call me Baron. It’s a nickname my colleagues often 
use, jokingly of course.”

“No real title then?”

“Oh, the family name is old and at some point there was some land 
associated with it. The land was sold but the title stuck. The 
war, you see.”

Ethan put down his knapsack and welcomed the shade, settling on a 
crate. His eyes seemed suddenly old, staring outside at the crowd 
of volunteers when he said:

“There’s always some kind of war going on. Isn’t that why you’re 
here now?”

The doctor put down his pad on one of the crates, pulled a 
fold-up chair from a corner of the tent, spread it open and sat 
down, his relief obvious in the way he splayed his feed, heels on 
the dirt. He took a few short breaths before answering in a 
peculiar, thoughtful voice:

“I’m here to help in what way I can. Famine and disease are just 
as lethal as bullets from what I’ve seen. But why are you here?”

Ethan frowned in puzzlement and smiled in his usually disarming 
way. He tried to sound casually baffled when he said:

“Tell the world what’s going on in Biafra. Take some pictures. 
Perhaps ask London for a raise too once I’m famous.”

The doctor put one leg on the other and seemed somewhat 
distraught, perhaps worried:

“So, a professional. I was hoping for a bit of a romantic you 
see. Every help we can get is better than none at all. And 
frankly, you look like you don’t need much help in these parts.”

Ethan crossed his arms against his chest, purely an instinctive 
defensive motion that only helped to show his nervousness. His 
charm didn’t seem to work as intended, and his sly grin was his 
way of showing he genuinely liked the plumb Prussian doctor for 
his openness:

“What can I say, I’ve been places. Suez. Kenya. Angola. Vietnam.”

The doctor reached into his sweat-stained shirt’s pocket and 
procured a pack of Camel’s. He put one into his mouth and 
proffered one to Ethan as well, who politely nodded his refusal, 
the grin unwaveringly attached on his tanned face. The doctor got 
up from his seat, while searching around for something to light 
his cigarette. His reply came with a slightly muffled voice:

“I’m sure you enjoy travelling. A lot, I might add. Light?”

Ethan laughed and felt somewhat unburdened. He offered Dr. 
Manteufel a lighter from one of his pants’ side pockets:

“I can’t really say what’s on your mind, Ludwig.”

The doctor lit his Camel and seemed to cherish the moment before 
answering, his eyes squarely meeting Ethan’s gaze before asking 
him straight:

“Are you going to be trouble? We don’t need any more trouble 
where we’re going.”

Ethan took his lighter back and answered the doctor, the sudden 
quietness in his voice the only indication that he himself was 
somewhat uncertain:

“I want to stay out of trouble as much as you do.”

Ludwig drew on his cigarette once more, this time exhaling 
briskly and adding hastily:

“Good. That’s good. Thank you.”

Ethan nodded in silence before the doctor went on:

“I just want to help these people, and stay alive in the process. 
Is it too much to ask?”

“No, I suppose it’s not.”

Ludwig then put out his cigarette in the dirt and wiped his 
forehead once more. He seemed to mumble to himself:

“Good man. A good man.”

Ethan noticed and asked the doctor, his voice right on the edge 
of doubt:

“How can you tell?”

Ludwig looked at him with some reluctance before replying:

“I can’t. But I have hope.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]Space inside the Land Rover was at a premium. Not an inch of 
space had gone to waste; it almost seemed like the passengers 
inside were intruding on the cargo space and not the other way 
around. Ethan had come up with a very comfortable-looking seating 
arrangement on top of a sack of rice, along with a wooden crate 
against his back and a couple of flour bags to put his feet up 
on. He and the doctor were riding along together at the rear of 
the small convoy of Land Rovers.

Ludwig was sweating profusely, and kept dabbing his forehead and 
face with a small hand towel. It only made his suffering a little 
less unbearable and a little more obvious. Ethan had been 
sleeping on and off, the car’s continuous jerks and road bumps 
having developed into a sort of lullaby. Their driver was 
invariably focused on the task at hand, barely uttering a word. 
Ludwig could not stop himself from asking, straining his voice to 
be heard over the roar of the diesel engine. Even though at 
previous times he hadn’t received an answer he could make good 
use of yet, his pitch had an air of optimism about it:

“Are we going to stop any time soon, Olufemi?”

The driver’s answer was curt and to the point, as had been the 
case previously as well.

“Yes.”

Ludwig who would otherwise consider an endless talker a nuisance 
at best, appeared to be edging on aggravation. Olufemi’s 
brusqueness felt like he was doing the doctor a favor by even 
considering an answer.

The doctor made another effort to engage in conversation or at 
least learn some hopefully interesting information about their 
whereabouts:

“Well, could you refine that somewhat? How soon exactly, is soon? 
More or less, of course.”

Olufemi paused for a moment before answering in his usual, 
quietly dry manner:

“Before nightfall.”

Ludwig nodded to himself, and tried to clear his parched throat 
with little success and barely a spit. Ethan had a contemplating 
look drawn upon his face, his gaze darting from bush to grove. He 
held his camera in hand, the inadvertent swarm of flies seemingly 
rather fond of him. Ludwig tried to get his attention, engage in 
some kind of discussion to relieve himself of the dullness:

“That camera.. It’s a Leica, right?”

Ethan turned to face Ludwig with a furrowed brow, and having been 
caught unawares asked rather plainly:

“I’m sorry?”

Ludwig repeated himself, this time almost shouting:

“The camera. It’s a Leica M3, right? Some very good equipment you 
have there.”

Ethan shrugged indifferently, effortlessly shooting down Ludwig’s 
hopes. A prolonged silence followed once again, regularly 
interrupted by the creaks and croans of the Land Rover’s chassis. 
As the evening wore by, flies began to give their place to 
mosquitoes. The grassy hills rushed by, lush with vegetation, 
filled with tall, thin trees and distant mangroves. The swampy 
savannah drew distant with every passing minute.

Ethan turned and addressed Olufemi in Yoruba with a ghastly 
accent, but decent enough to be understood. The driver suddenly 
burst into laughter and started talking vividly with Ethan. A 
torrential flow of Yoruba was intermixed with laughs, giggles and 
extravagant hand gestures. Ethan was responding in kind, and 
judging by his tone, sometimes asking, sometimes filling in and 
sometimes simply nodding. Olufemi even made eye contact with 
Ludwig once, before breaking down in laughter once more before 
finally being able to settle down to his invariably dull and 
sullen mood. Ludwig looked at Ethan with eyes that shone rather 
irregularly and a voice slightly reminiscent of gritted teeth:

“Care to share, Richard?”

The last word sounded unusually venomous for the good doctor. 
Ethan countered the doctor’s irate mood with a radiating smile. 
He explained:

“He thinks you talk too much.”

Ludwig raised his brow and nodded, right before instinctively 
slapping his arm, failing to kill a mosquito. Before Ludwig could 
have had the chance to retort in a manner unbecoming of a doctor, 
Olufemi suddenly cut in:

“For a doctor. We dem almost there. See now, the clearing.”

Both of them looked up ahead to where the road steered off course 
and into a dirt path that seemed to lead slowly upwards onto a 
small ridge. Ludwig asked then with barely conceiled 
exhilaration:

“Is that where we stop for the night?”

Olufemi gave a nod instead of answering properly, while Ethan was 
looking more and more at the sky, its rosy and purple hues 
lighting up the gathering clouds, dressing them in the imagery of 
cotton candy. While the last light could be seen falling around 
them, Ethan said with some disappointment:

“It’s going to rain like the devil, that’s for sure.”

The driver nodded his silent agreement, while Ludwig said with 
the slightest hint of irony:

“I thought Brits liked rain.”

To which Ethan commented wryly:

“We like rain alright. It’s all that water we could live without.”

Olufemi started laughing again, and this time Ludwig managed to 
crack a smile. Ethan laid back on his sack once more while the 
first droplets of water gathered on the windshield. Ludwig 
retorted with a grin:

“And the rest of us could be spared your dry sense of humor as 
well.”

Ethan lit up a cigarette and inhaled deeply before answering:

“Well said.”

As Ludwig joined him, the small droplets rapidly grew into a 
proper tropical storm, causing even Olufemi to exclaim:

“Dis dey proper fuck.”

Ethan was about to translate when Ludwig made himself heard over 
the din of the storm:

“I think I get the idea, Richard.”

Visibility had been reduced to the car up ahead, and only thanks 
to the powerful headlights. The caravan was moving with a walking 
speed, carefully treading on a dirt-turned-into-mud path barely 
wide enough to call a road. Olufemi made some colourful remarks 
about the driving conditions, to which Ethan remarked they should 
be happy they weren’t being shot at.

Ludwig stabbed Ethan with a gaze unusually hard and firm for such 
a seemingly light-mannered man and asked him:

“Would it make good press?”

Ethan shrugged and before he had time to answer, a blinding flash 
lit the area in front of them and in the blink of an eye they 
felt the surging overpressure of a shockwave on their eardrums. A 
wall of dirt and mud seemed to go up in the air, lifting with it 
the chassis of the Rover in front of the column. Ethan’s shouting 
was barely heard through buzzing eardrums:

“Landmine! Stop, stop! Get out, now!”

Olufemi panicked and let go of the wheel, their car bumping on 
the Rover in front. The flaming debris of the destroyed Land 
Rover could be seen, lying on the edge of the road upturned and 
torn. Pandemonium ensued.

“What was that?” Ludwig asked with a slight tremor in his voice. 
The answer from Ethan came accompanied by a powerful shove:

“Landmine or RPG! Now move! Out of the car! And stay low!”

Olufemi was faster to comply, opening his door and rushing out, 
frantically searching for more flashes or explosions, but none 
came. Ludwig sloppily made his way out of the doors in the back 
of the Rover over the assorted bags and crates, while Ethan 
opened the window behind him and drew himself out in a fluid 
motion.

He shouted to the bewildered people in the caravan, some of which 
had already stepped outside their Rovers, dazed and confused:

“Get out! Lay low and don’t move!”

Ethan’s eyes were frantically looking for signs of movement in 
the torrential rain, the light from the headlamps the only source 
of illumination. There were no muzzle flashes, launch trails or 
smoke. Lots of shouting and confusion, but the characteristic 
hammering sound of AKs was absent. This was not an ambush. 
Ethan’s voice took on an authoritative yet calming tone:

“Calm down. Stay put. No-one’s shooting at us. It was a landmine. 
Tell the people next to you to calm down and stay put.”

Everyone was drenched to the bone. All around him, Ethan could 
see faces frozen in sheer terror, some of them shaking visibly. 
Olufemi had started shouting calls to the other drivers in 
Yoruba, when Ethan’s instincts kicked in; he quickly walked over 
him and put a hand to his mouth. Olufemi was surprised and looked 
at Ethan sideways, giving him a look of frustrated fear. Ethan 
put one finger to his mouth while shaking his head, and let go of 
Olufemi’s mouth:

“No shouting, not in Yoruba. Understand, mate? Not around these 
parts.”

Olufemi could only nod. Rather baffled though he was, he motioned 
with his hands to the other drivers who by now had his attention 
to `lay low’. With fear and hesitation as plentiful as the rain 
pouring down on them, the drivers complied, some of them already 
on their knees and praying.

Ethan felt the heavy rain on his head, tried to wash away 
everything else and focus on the moment. He needed to calmly tell 
these people what to do next, when Ludwig came up from behind 
him, the sound of his approach muffled by the rain and the din 
from the people in shock. Ethan’s eye simply caught a shadow 
approaching. He twisted around sharply, grabbed Ludwig from one 
arm and place his foot to act as a pivot. Before having time to 
actually see Ludwig, he was already throwing him down to the 
dirt, still grabbing his arm.

Ludwig splashed in the mud yelling, markedly scared and 
half-witted:

“It’s me! It’s me! Scheisse!”

Ethan breathed deeply, letting some of the adrenaline wear off 
before picking up Ludwig and offering his apologies:

“Sorry I jumped on you. It’s a conditioned reflex.”

Ludwig could not help but shout irately:

“Conditioned reflex?!”

“Just so happens, yes. Never mind that, we need to get these 
people off the road. Someone fucked up the itinerary. Olufemi!”

The driver turned and nodded. He looked shaken but he was 
evidently quick about his wits. Ethan leaned slightly towards 
him, shouting to be heard and pointing at the column of stopped 
rovers and the frightened crowd:

“Step on the Rovers’ tracks. Tell the rest of the drivers to get 
the people back inside. See if anyone’s wounded, get the doctors 
working on them. We’ll be safe as houses then.”

Olufemi nodded and carefully started walking towards the first 
Rover, while the people were shouting out questions to no-one in 
particular. Ethan started walking up the front of the column, 
carefully passing by people and telling everyone to be calm and 
emphasize that they were probably safe.

Once he reached the debris of the first Rover, he saw the people 
in the second car frozen still. They had bled out of their ears, 
probably deaf and scared to death. Ethan took a closer look: the 
driver was still clutching his wheel, all tensed up and in shock. 
The explosion had shattered the windshield, and along the water 
that had pooled inside there was what remained of a shattered, 
blown away arm. The driver had shattered fragments of glass all 
over his face, and his eyes were a bloody mess.

Ethan shouted to Ludwig:

“Ludwig! Grab a first aid kit, and come up front! Face injury! 
Try and stay on the tire tracks!”

Ludwig nodded affirmatively and disappeared in the back of the 
Rover. Ethan grabbed the blind man from one arm and told him 
nothing. He simply squeezed him gently and felt the man’s blood 
pumping like a flooded river.

Once Ludwig arrived he shot a quick glance at the blown up 
vehicle, and quickly turned to say something to Ethan who shook 
his head in denial:

“Not a chance, mate. I’m sorry. Enough explosives to throw five 
thousand pounds six feet in the air. It’s a bloody miracle this 
one’s lost just his eyes instead of his head. The others are in 
the back, scared shitless, a bit deaf probably but otherwise in 
one piece.”

Ludwig nodded appreciatively and focused on the task at hand, 
trying not to think about the people in that first Rover. His 
motions were calm and professional, as if he was working in an 
examination room. Ethan urged him to hurry up, and took a few 
steps forward towards the small crater which had effortlessly 
turned into a pool. He took out a flashlight from one of his 
pants’ pockets and a large leaf-shaped knife from an ankle belt. 

He crouched and slowly crept towards the pool, carefully studying 
the ground, digging in with the knife at seemingly random 
intervals. Going past the pool, his eyes avidly scanned the mud. 
Before long, even under the unabating rain and all the mess of 
debris he caught a glimpse of a dull olive-green shape barely 
protruding from the muddy ground. A careful prod at the rim with 
the knife let him know this was another landmine. A few feet to 
his right, he could make out the outline of another. A slow, 
careful sweep with the flashlight uncovered two more, less than 
ten feet apart. He slid back to the crater and got up, jogging 
back to Ludwig and the injured man.

A certain amount of quiet and calm had started to settle among 
the crowd. Olufemi could be seen quietly exchanging concerned 
looks with the other drivers, some of them already back inside 
their Rovers, trying to find a dry smoke.

“It’s a proper god-awful minefield,” said Ethan to Ludwig.

Ludwig was still dressing the eyes of the driver, after having 
administered some sedatives for the excruciating pain that would 
follow the end of the adrenaline rush. He was dripping wet, 
smeared with blood all over his hands and shirt.

“Your deductive reasoning amazes me,” said the doctor, not 
bothering to hide the tone of irony. Ethan replied calmly:

“It could have been a single land mine, an old ambush site. No, 
this was a proper minefield, there’s probably more of them around 
the bushes and trees. We need to go back. I don’t know who 
decided on this itinerary, but it wasn’t safe. Killed those 
people in the Rover, and it might have killed us all. Might still 
as well. We need to get moving out of here.”

Ludwig suddenly stopped tending to the wounded driver. He closed 
his eyes and seemed to whisper something in German. Ethan told 
him sternly:

“What are you blabbering about? They’re dead, Ludwig. Come on 
now, pull it together.”

The doctor exploded with fury at Ethan, letting his utensils drop 
to the mud:

“I picked the roads! It was me! So fuck you, Mr. Owls!”

Ethan fell instantly silent, knowing there was nothing meaningful 
to say to the doctor. The next moment, the doctor was leaning on 
the side of the Rover, emptying his stomach involuntarily.

Olufemi noticed the slight commotion, and came a bit closer to 
see. Ethan explained to Olufemi as he approached:

“We need to go back, around another way. It’s probably best if we 
can stop for the night someplace near. Anything in mind?”

Olufemi seemed to pause and think for a while, and then nodded 
with renewed vigor:

“Yes, dey is a mission,” his voice ringing clear through the 
never-ending rain.

“What kind of a mission?”

“French Catholic. Nuns,” replied Olufemi with a very peculiar and 
untimely grin.

Ludwig suddenly stood straight, hanging onto the Rover’s door 
though, and said with a pale face:

“We’re going back. This caravan is no more.”

Rivulets of rain ran freely down Ethan’s taut face when he said 
with the slightest hint of irony:

“How are you going to help then, doctor?”

“I’ll have no more blood on my hands. I can never -”

“You’re scared out of your mind, I know. Maybe you’ve shat 
yourself, or pissed on your pants. Can’t tell with the bloody 
rain. It’s only natural. Fear is natural.”

“It doesn’t matter what I feel, damn you! These people trusted me 
with their -”

“Signed the papers, didn’t they? Listen, this is fuckall, 
alright? You can’t think straight. Olufemi, take point in our 
Rover. I’ll drive this one. Doctor, seriously, grab a couple of 
sedatives yourself and just hang on. Alright?”

Ludwig stared blankly at Ethan, while Olufemi hurried to spread 
the word to the other drivers. Ethan moved the driver in the 
co-driver’s seat, and told a practically deaf nurse and a red 
cross volunteer with a broken arm that they were leaving now. At 
length, before he urged Ludwig to get in the Rover, the doctor 
asked him:

“Do you know what you’re doing?”

Ethan felt odd suddenly. He had heard that same question probably 
a thousand times from a hundred different people, but somehow 
this time it sounded as different as it was familiar. And even 
though he felt naturally inclined to grin and answer `bloody hell 
no’, he calmly said to the doctor:

“It will be alright now. Just get in the car with Olufemi, and 
try not to think.”

The doctor made his way to the Rover with a slouch, exhaustion 
drawn all over his face. Ethan got into the now vacant driver’s 
seat and put the gear into reverse. He felt like he was turning 
into an accomplished liar, something he had thought he’d despise. 
Strangely enough, all he could think of was his bad leg.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

Ludwig nodded his silent thanks to the sister who in turn smiled 
serenely and left the room with measured prudishness. A couple of 
oil lamps, one on a plain wooden shelf and another on an equally 
unadorned table gave off a warm light, accented at times by the 
flash of lightning pouring in through the small stained glass 
window. The glass added a reddish hue that seemed to have 
attracted Ethan’s gaze like a moth to a fire, his face set in 
stone, perched inside the cups of his hands.

Ludwig took a cigarette from his pack, his hands still shaking. 
He was about to offer it to Ethan when he suddenly rose up from 
the small cot and blinked furiously as if awaking from a long, 
deep slumber of which he had no recollection. He asked Ludwig 
then:

“How is everyone?”

The doctor lit the cigarette and stared outside the window, even 
though there was nothing to see but dark, pouring rain and a 
circus of fleeting, random shadows. His voice sounded 
unassumingly flat:

“The driver is running a high fever. He’s on antibiotics, and I 
though I removed as much of the shrapnel as I could under the 
circumstances. Nothing can be done about his hearing. Tartoovi 
and Donaldson have probably gone deaf for life. I had to sedate 
them. They’re sleeping now. The rest, some small cuts, bruises 
and the occasional dislocation or sprain.”

“That’s good to hear.”

The doctor’s eyes suddenly seemed to pop while his face tensed 
with seeping anger at those words.

“Is that some sick joke, Mr. Owls? People died tonight, for God’s 
sake!”

“It could have been worse. There could have been more dead on 
that trail tonight.”

A flash of lightning cast a freakish shadow in the small 
guestroom. A few moments passed before the sound of thunder 
rolled by, when Ludwig managed to speak again:

“What kind of person says such a thing? These people..”

“They’re dead, and you have to live with that. Deal with it, 
Ludwig. There’s nothing that can be done now about it.”

Ludwig stood with a half-opened mouth, seemingly unable to find 
the right words.

“How can you be so.. Detached? I mean, they were.. Jesus, 
Richard.”

Ethan gave the doctor a long hard stare. His eyes seemed to waver 
a little, while his visage remained stern and grave-looking. His 
voice was pitched lower than usual:

“It happens after a while, doctor. It keeps me sane, it keeps me 
alive. It’s not something to be proud of, but that’s just as 
human as curling up in a corner and crying, blaming yourself or 
others.”

Another thunder reverberated inside the small chamber, the small 
flame in the oil lamp on the shelf trembling in tune. Ludwig put 
out his cigarette and took off his glasses. He reached into his 
pockets and produced a small piece of clean linen with which he 
started cleaning his glasses. Ethan started to say something when 
the doctor spoke to him without meeting his gaze:

“It seems you have everything worked out. You know your way 
around people dying, dealing with traumatic disorders and guilt. 
So tell me, please, is it normal if I feel like punching you in 
the face?”

Ethan paused for a moment, and shrugged almost apologetically. He 
replied:

“If you think it’ll make you feel better, then by all means. I’m 
not your problem though. You’re still emotional from what 
happened, and that’s just --”

Ludwig’s fist connected with Ethans cheekbone and stopped him 
mid-sentence. Before he slammed the frail door behind him as he 
left the room, Ludwig shouted in a fit of rage:

“Emotional?! What would you know about emotions?”

Ethan was caught off-guard, but recovered quickly enough. He 
rushed outside the small guestroom and onto an ill-lit corridor. 
Even as he started off to follow the doctor, a figure suddenly 
appeared to be blocking his way. He stopped and looked genuinely 
surprised when he saw a tall, slender woman sporting a look that 
could have bored a hole in his face. Subdued light poured off a 
small opening to her right. She was still holding the tattered 
curtain that served as a door when she sternly told Ethan:

“For God’s sake, be quiet!”

“I’m sorry about the noise and all, sister but it really is none 
of your business so --”

The slap across Ethan’s face came out almost out of nowhere. It 
jolted him back into the deep memory of a well-mannered childhood 
for only a tiny moment, and the accented yet quite clear voice 
served to reattach his awareness into the current state of 
affairs and a very irate woman:

“It is my business, and I’m not anyone’s sister! These people 
need peace and quiet!” she said and pulled back the curtain to 
reveal a cluster of makeshift beds, cots and matresses filled 
with people.

“Who the hell are you lady?”

“My name’s Nicole Heurgot, I’m a nurse and whoever you are you 
have a big mouth and an even bigger as-”

“Mademoiselle, ca suffit!”

The sister superior appeared through the curtain and she looked 
rather disappointed at such an exchange. She said to Ethan:

“Monsieur Owls, please. If you must, take this outside. There are 
sick and wounded in here, and not just your caravan. Et vous, 
mademoiselle Heurgot, calme toi. S’il vous-plait.”

And with that, she returned inside to the makeshift bed chamber 
posing as a nursing station.

Nicole’s stare was still hard when she said to Ethan, almost 
stunned in place:

“Not an English gentleman at all, are you?”

Ethan tried to sound apologetic when he said: “Listen, I’m sorry 
but some people died today and we got into a heated debate. I 
wouldn’t expect you to be that understanding.” He actually 
sounded more like some kind of elitist snob who thought people 
were incapable of doing anything right.

Nicole retorted with an accusing, yet hushed tone: “People tend 
to do that thing around here. You assume too much. Perhaps you’re 
in the wrong place.”

Her feisty attitude only served to make Ethan’s head cock 
sideways before he replied with a sleight hint of aggravation: “
I’d be inclined to say the same about you.”

“And you’d be wrong,” Nicole said before adding: “Your sort 
usually are. Why don’t you take some pictures in there? Isn’t 
that what you came here for after all?”

It was a verbal attack; even though her voice was kept low at all 
times she sounded positively miffed. Ethan found that 
agressiveness almost attractive. He was smiling thinly when he 
told her:

“You really don’t like me at all, do you?”

With a gaze slightly reminiscent of the mythic gorgon and an 
unmistakably french accent, she simply answered with another 
unveiled insult: “Vultures you mean? Nobody does.”

Ethan pondered about that word for a moment, and thought it funny 
that a journalist could draw more fire than a solder. He then 
told Nicole, “I think you’re biased. I said I’m sorry, and I 
really mean it. I was trying to apologise to Ludwig when I ran 
into you.”

Pointing to the small nursing station behind her she said with 
demanding undertones in her voice: “Well you should apologise to 
these people as well.”

Ethan tried to sound like a gentleman, using a grin that was in 
truth better suited to guile the unscrupulous sort of women that 
seemed already hooked by the sight of a Royal Marine uniform: “
Can I start by apologising to you?”

“If this is your idea of English charm, you’re more misguided 
than you look,” replied Nicole with a shake of her head and an 
almost sympathising grimace on her face.

The more distant she became, the more Ethan’s interest was piqued 
by what he felt like was a genuine example of the kind of women 
he rarely met: the hard ones. “You’re a very unforgiving person 
for a nurse, do you know that?” he said, this time without a grin 
or a smile.

Nicole kept at him in the same vein: “And you’re hardly a person 
yourself.”

“Listen, I think we’ve started on the wrong foot here. Please, 
give me a chance to make amends,” said Ethan, sounding genuinely 
sincere. It had little effect:

“I think I’ve wasted enough time with you already, Mr. Owls. Go 
back to your room and be thankful there are people who care, like 
the mother superior. People tolerant enough even to the likes of 
your kind.”

“Ah, vultures you mean? You make it sound like this whole bloody 
mess is my fault.”

She shrugged and said, looking suddenly morose instead of angry: “
I just don’t see how taking pictures of death, destruction and 
starving children can do any good.”

Ethan replied in a very serious tone, in an almost dangerous 
display of frankness, “Would it do any good if I was carrying a 
rifle instead?”

She paused for a moment, looking at Ethan with a set of piercing 
blue eyes that seemed to be trying to peer beyond those last few 
words of his: “We wouldn’t even be talking if that was the case. 
Now please, haranguing me like that won’t get you anywhere. I 
have much more pressing matters to attend to,” said and made to 
leave while Ethan’s gaze floated around until it met her left 
arm, where a piece of gauze stuck out from under her sleeve. 

“Like that arm of yours? You’re injured yourself, aren’t you?”

“You think you have a keen eye for misery? If only you were so 
thoughtful of everyone else as well,” she said with evident 
disapproval.

Ethan just threw his hands in the air and said:“For God’s sake, 
you haven’t even given me a chance, right from the start.”

Nicole was looking at him when she suddenly smiled ironically and 
said: “You think it’s unfair?”

Ethan waved a hand above his head and replied: “This whole 
business is unfair to everyone here. Shouldn’t you allow for some 
leeway, even when dealing with vultures?”

She paused for a moment, as if measuring everything about Ethan 
with a casual glance from head to toe:

“If you want some leeway, and if you’re willing to really 
apologize and make amends, then come lend a hand. You can carry 
things around without taking any pictures, can’t you?” she said, 
following her question up with a smile that might not have been 
as ironic as the first one.

“The lighting’s all bad anyway,” replied Ethan with a grin that 
came across as a bad touch.

“I find your sense of humor out of place,” said Nicole flatly.

“I try, but I always end up in the wrong place for some reason,” 
said Ethan and nodded to himself. Nicole replied with a frank 
voice:

“You’re a complex man, Mr. Owls.”

Ethan smiled thinly before he crossed his arms and said: “I 
thought I was a vulture.”

“You might still prove to be just that.”

“I can’t really change your mind, can I?” he said and shook his 
head.

As she pulled the curtain to the nursing station aside, she 
showed the way inside and said with what seemed to her genuine 
smile: “You can try.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

Purple and red hues of dawn sheepishly tried to blossom far away, 
the earth still wet and napping, the chill humid breeze unusually 
refreshing. Nicole’s gaze wandered around the monastery’s rock 
and mud walls for a moment, before it focused on the bell towers. 
One was set facing the east, the other towards the Vatican; from 
the weary look on her face, both directions looked equally 
distant in any measureable way, whether it be space or time.

Ethan approached her casually without any hint of their former 
quarrelsome chat. He offered her a cigarette which she silently 
accepted. He lit it up, and they both sat on a stone wall near 
the wall, letting the morning wind carry away all the weight of 
the night before.

Helping Nicole with her rounds had mellowed her somewhat to the 
point where she no longer considered him a vulture. Not only had 
she admitted being too quick to judge, but she had also been 
openly impressed by Ethan’s quick-and-dirty first-aid knowledge, 
turning any simple item into a tourniquet or a splinter. It 
struck her as odd but Ethan had managed to explain that any 
journalist that wanted to get alive out of a war zone had to be a 
medic as well. She had smiled at that and said with just a hint 
of mischief: “My, my; and you can type as well”.

But nothing on her face that morning came close to that austere, 
quirky nurse with the outspoken dislike of journalists and other 
vermin that seemed to feed on human misery: As she sat there 
smoking, she struck Ethan as a very familiar face, someone close 
but yet so distant in memory. Like a long lost friend or perhaps, 
a lover. He kept trying to remember, and was soon enthralled by 
the warmth of her face, lost in his little own box of memories.

As she took another puff from her cigarette, she casually looked 
around and caught Ethan with his gaze fixated on her, his eyes 
out of focus. She asked him then, with just the right amount of 
disapproval in her soft voice:

“Anything you particularly like, Mr. Owls?” to which no answer 
came. She asked again, this time less pretentiously:

“Richard? Lost somewhere?” she said, and broke the spell.

“Hmm? Sorry.” he finally managed to answer before he himself 
asked in earnest: “I must’ve been woolgathering, what were you 
saying?”

Nicole shrugged and said, “Nothing. You just stood there and kept 
looking at me,” before she 

added all high-browed yet smiling slightly, “Looking for 
something in particular?”

Ethan smiled with a corner of his lip in a bitter fashion before 
exhaling, the smoke swiftly vanishing away in little curls and 
twists. He sounded somewhat reticent, weighed-down when he said:

“That’s a funny thing to ask; you could say I am, but it’s not 
you. Though you do remind me of someone. I just can’t put a name 
to it; it’s a slippery thing.”

The bells started to chime then; it was time for the morning 
prayer. A few sisters could be seen around the courtyard, 
hurriedly but quietly moving about for the mass. It struck Ethan 
as odd then how similar it all looked to a roll call: quiet, 
practiced, efficient. “Unto God’s own image,” he said then half 
to himself, while he pointed to the shuffling silhouettes of the 
nuns.

Nicole turned around to look and through a small window the first 
cautious rays of sunlight caused her to squint even though she 
sat in the shadow of the walls. She shook her head and said, “
Such a waste,” before she put out her cigarette and folded her 
arms.

Ethan frowned and asked her: “You mean, the nuns?”

She half-turned around to look at him, while warm sunlight made 
her hair glow as if from within and said, “I mean God.”

Ethan let out a small laugh before he said: “That’s a funny thing 
to say for someone working in a monastery. It’s almost a joke, 
actually.”

Her eyes suddenly took on that earlier piercing glint that 
conveyed her annoyance instantly. She retorted:

“’He’ is the joke. It’s just that people don’t seem to get it, 
more often than not. In a sense, it’s better that way. Imagine if 
these nuns were used as forced labor, sold and exchanged like 
cattle. At least the lie they live in doesn’t make things any 
worse.”

“I’ve always wondered. Don’t you people believe in anything?”

She frowned, cocked her head sideways and asked him: “What do you 
mean, ’you people’?”

“Atheists,” he said and put out his own cigarette, stamping it on 
the red soil.

She laughed heartily despite herself and said with a grin:

“For a moment there, I thought you would’ve said ’communists’.”

“I try not to mix politics and religion.”

“Aren’t they the same?”

“Not quite. I mean, no one actually believes politicians, right? 
At least I hope not.”

“I wish it was a laughing matter, but it’s really not.”

“So you place all your trust in man then? Look around you. We’re 
not exactly doing a bang up job, are we?”



“I have faith in man. The sisters here have faith in God. And I 
do not consider myself an atheist; I just have a grudge against 
people who think God has anything to do with this life,” she said 
and brushed a lock of her hair away from her cheek.

Ethan looked at her in a pensive mood. ’What an interesting 
woman’, he thought to himself. He lowered his gaze to his feet 
and said:

“I’m not a church-going fellow myself, not by a long-shot. But 
sometimes, some things just make you wish for something to grab 
and hold on.”

“Like a woman?” she said, her grin almost meant to tease. He 
laughed and waved no with his hands.

“Heaven forbid, no. In any case, I meant something. Not someone. 
Like an idea, a symbol, a flag. Maybe a flag. You know, something 
to-”

“Idolize,” she filled in on cue and made him nod.

“Yeah, you might call it like that.”

“Look around you, it’s everywhere. What the sisters hold on to.”

“I wouldn’t know anything about nuns.”

“What happened to a journalist’s keen senses?” she said, and 
pointed with an index finger to the church bell tower. On top of 
it, stood a plain iron cross. Ethan smiled thinly and shook his 
head.

“Ah. Well, I guess that was blatantly obvious. Perhaps I should 
think about a career change.”

“Maybe. Sometimes I think like that myself.”

“Really? It gets to you, doesn’t it?”

“I try to think of the larger picture. That I’m helping save 
lives. But it doesn’t always work. That’s why sometimes I need 
this,” she said and showed Ethan a chain around her neck, a 
simple unadorned St. Andrews cross on it. It looked familiar. He 
felt the urge to take a closer look.

“A cross? May I?”

She nodded and took off the cross that she had been wearing: it 
was a simple, unadorned silver St. Andrews cross. Ethan took it 
in his hand and it immediately felt more than familiar - he 
turned it around and he saw the letters ’A.N.W.’ carved on the 
backside. Andy Nathaniel Whittmore. This was Andy’s cross.

Thoughts and wishes mingled in one as they raced to take control 
of his mouth. He tried but he couldn’t remember the last time he 
had actually been at a loss. His face was motionless, unable to 
look anything other than utterly confounded.

Nicole saw that and couldn’t help asking:

“What is it? What’s bothering you?”

“That cross. That’s Andy’s cross. My brother’s.”

“Your brother? That’s ridiculous,” she said and looked scornfully 
away, unabashedly dismissive in her expression.

He didn’t give it a second thought. All the constructed facade he 
had went to some considerable effort to create suddenly felt 
completely worthless and immaterial.

“It’s not,” he said and took off his own twin cross and showed it 
to her. It wasn’t as polished and there was a silver-grey patina 
all over it, but the initials ’E.R.W.’ stood out clearly.

“That’s for Ethan Roiel Whittmore. And that cross of yours has 
Andy Nathaniel Whittmore carved on its back. That’s my brother’s 
cross.”

“But.. You said your name is Richard Owls. What’s this all about?”

“Where did you get that cross?”

“That’s my husband’s cross.”

The connotation made Ethan blink twice. He almost stuttered when 
he asked:

“Andy? Andy got married? You’re his wife? Where is he, what 
happened?”

Ethan’s face became a mask of anxiety, contorted and flushed. His 
breathing became shallower, as if he was about to jump into an 
ice cold ocean of fear and doubt. Nicole’s stare was fixed on the 
cross as she traced its edges. She spoke then with a low, uneven 
voice, as if she was telling story better left unsaid:

“Our camp was attacked. Tribal lords. Little more than feral men, 
they came one day and wanted to loot everything. Including the 
women. Some of us tried to put up a fight. Perhaps it was a 
mistake. During the shooting, a few had the chance to run away. 
Andy with some of the guides stayed behind, buy us time. He was 
bleeding when.. He.. He gave me this cross. He was a believer, 
you see. Funny, no?”

Tears welled in her eyes but she did not cry, even though it 
seemed like she should. Ethan saw how easily her facade of a 
strict, haughty nurse had crumbled away when she mentioned her 
husband. Thoughts about that camp ran around Ethan’s head. A 
strange forlorn feeling of an idea formed up in his head. He told 
her then in his most steady, thoughtful voice:

“I’m looking for Andy. All this, it’s just a cover. I need you to 
tell me everything that happened that day.”

Her face suddenly became a bit pale. She looked disturbed, 
stricken with sudden anxiety.

“But Andy.. He has barely mentioned you. What is this? Some kind 
of sick joke?”

“I’m being dead serious. I’m risking my hide for this. I just 
want to find my brother, don’t you? You can’t give up on him. We 
just can’t.”

“But Andy’s.. He was bleeding from his leg, looking all pale when 
we.. No, he’s just as good as dead. Those men wouldn’t just.. 
Animals, not men. You don’t know what it was like!”

“Have you given up on him already? He’s a doctor for Christ’s 
sake, they’d need him alive, too useful to be killed outright. 
There’s a really good chance he’s alive, Nicole.”

“I can’t believe that right now. I just can’t. I saw his eyes, 
Richard. I saw nothing but emptiness..”

“Please, call me Ethan. Whatever you saw, it’s just the grief and 
the pain talking right now. If he wasn’t dead when you left, he 
was alive and that’s what I’m counting on.”

“I want to believe you, I really do. But, what can we do? I 
mean.. Those people.. Even if..”

“You said you had faith. Have faith in me, please. Did he ever 
talk to you about Father Mulcahey?”

She rubbed her eyes with both hands. There was a deep frown on 
her face when she said:

“The name sounds familiar. Why?”

“Those crosses. We were ten. Well, I was twelve years old, Andy 
was ten. I’d sneaked in Father Mulcahey’s office. I’d made a bet, 
I could get my mates a bottle of sacramental wine. When Father 
Mulcahey got wind off the missing bottle, he roused us out of 
bed. He asked nicely which one of lads did it. I was about to 
take the punishment and the Hail Mary's that went along with it, 
when Andy steps out front, says he was the culprit. Everyone else 
goes back to sleep, and then the father calls us both into the 
office. I was thinking we were going to get a beating either way. 
Instead, he opens up this little box and offers us a set of 
crosses. Makes us wear them and take a vow. Next month during the 
holidays, we had our initials carved. Been on me every day since 
then.”

“What was the vow?”

“Never leave your brother behind. That’s what I’m doing. I’m not 
leaving Andy behind.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

The voice on the small speaker sounded worried and uneven.

“What’s wrong? Why couldn’t you wait for the courier?”

“There’s a problem.”

The matter-of-fact voice on the microphone was a woman’s voice. 
It had a bit of an accent.

“What kind? It doesn’t sound like you to talk around things.”

“I’m not sure if it’s exactly a problem. I might have stumbled on 
your brother.”

“My what?” said the man, his voice full of disbelief and shocked 
surprise.

“I met a man today who posed as a journalist by the name of 
Richard Owls. Long story short, he says he’s your brother, Ethan. 
We were talking, and showed him your cross, playing the widow 
part. Thought your death might look good on a paper. He showed me 
a cross with his initials on it, E.R.W. He also told me about 
Father Mulcahey’s sacramental wine. Is it really him? Strong, 
red-haired fellow. Has these piercing blue eyes. Medium height.”

An uncomfortable silence ensued. Nicole spoke once more into the 
microphone with some reservation:

“Andy?”

“That’s Ethan alright. Listen, you need to keep him busy while I 
think of something to throw him off course. He might mean well, 
but he can be a very single-minded idiot when he wants to. And 
Nicole?”

“Tell me.”

“Strict radio silence from now on. He mustn’t get a whiff.”

“You know me.”

“But you don’t know my brother.”

Blood-red dawn

The hills around the monastery blossomed golden under the first 
rays of the sun. The cold, wet night edged away, hiding under the 
jungle’s treetops. The bell of the monastery started to ring, 
calling for the morning prayer. A few of the sisters started to 
gather in the small temple, rosemary in hand. Their lips moved at 
a shallow, serene pace, mouthing hymns and eulogies to their God, 
Lord and Savior.

Ethan had been awake before the break of dawn. He was watching 
the small procession from a small, pane-less window. The night 
had been small but courteous; nothing but the distant sounds of 
wildlife had bothered him. Again, his sleep was dreamless.

There was a knock on the door; the stars above shone their last 
light for the night. Ludwig stepped hesitantly inside, holding 
two cups of tea; it his way of apologizing. Ethan offered him a 
cigarette in kind. They sat together in the small room. Ethan sat 
upright in his bed cot, Ludwig pulled the single chair. They left 
their cups of tea to slowly cool on the window sill. When the 
break of dawn came they were still silent, trying not to think. 
Ludwig cleared his throat, breaking the uneasy silence:

“We might head back.”

Ethan simply nodded and sipped quietly from his cup. His nostrils 
flared from the aroma, but he said nothing. Ludwig went on:

“We’ll talk it over once everyone’s awake. I think we should 
press on, otherwise these people would have gone through all this 
for nothing. The rest though are probably scared out of their 
minds.”

“Can you blame them?” said Ethan and stood up, stretching. Ludwig 
continued, tapping his foot nervously, his tone somewhat 
apologetic: “In any case, some should stay behind and help the 
monastery, at the least. It might be just as good as setting up 
camp elsewhere.”

Ethan’s response was terse: “Makes sense.” 

“Not a lot of it makes sense to me, Richard. I want to help, but 
this mess..”

“Having second thoughts?” Ethan said, staring blankly at the rose 
red morning sky, hands on his waist.

“Wouldn’t you? I mean, after everything is said and done, is it 
worth it? I want to help, these people want to help but.. How can 
anyone weight that? One’s own life against another?”

Ludwig gulped down a mouthful of tea greedily. He didn’t seem to 
bother that it was still too hot for comfort.

“Did you get enough sleep?”

Ludwig shook his head wearily. Ethan perched himself on the 
window sill and told Ludwig in a very business-like fashion.

“If you want to move on, you need to get past what’s happened. If 
you can’t, you should head back while we’re still not on the deep 
end here. Otherwise, chances are more people will get hurt for 
nothing.”

The doctor nodded in agreement and lit his cigarette. He took a 
few puffs, drew the smoke in deep. He seemed to relax a bit, the 
care lines on his face evening out.

“What.. What about you?” Ludwig asked with just a hint of 
hesitation, as if the answer might not be forthcoming, as it was 
dangerous to know.

“What do you want to know?” replied Ethan while tapping a 
cigarette out of his pack.

“I just think it might be safer if you came along. That’s all I 
need to know.”

“I’m going in as far deep as you are willing to go. But at some 
point..” Ethan’s voice trailed off as he drew on his smoke 
heavily. Ludwig closed his eyes and nodded before he replied:

“I think I understand.”

Silence ensued between them. The sound of chanting rose suddenly 
out of the temple’s open doors just as the first rays of the sun 
melted away the morning haze around the small patches of 
greenery. The heat was building up rapidly; soon they would be 
sweating again. Ethan suddenly turned and looked Ludwig straight 
in the eye. There was a frown on the doctor’s face, a mixed 
expression of fear and hope. Ash from his cigarette fell on the 
dirt floor.

“My name’s Ethan. I don’t think knowing that puts you in any more 
danger than you already are. I mean, you’ve trod on a minefield 
already,” Ethan said and smiled sheepishly.

Ludwig smiled thinly but genuinely and said to him: “No, I don’t 
think it does. I knew when I saw you that you’re a good man.”

“You don’t want to know the half of it, doctor,” Ethan replied 
and offered his hand. Ludwig smiled, the lines on his face 
wrinkling in a fatherly fashion. As they shook hands, they heard 
a dull but disturbing, faint echoing sound that Ethan recognised 
all too well: a gunshot.

“That can’t be good,” said Ethan dryly.

“Gunfire?”

Ethan just nodded and rushed to the doorway to peek outside. He 
could see through the wide open monastery gate. In the distance, 
he could make out a couple of open-top Rovers slowly coming up 
the hill. A barrage of rattling sounds echoed around the hills; 
assault rifles on full auto. They were soon lost behind the first 
turn on the hillside. The gunfire went on, echoing faintly.

“Some kind of firefight,” Ethan said to Ludwig as he reached for 
his backpack.

“Government or rebels?” asked Ludwig with startled apprehension, 
as he took a look for himself.

“Probably neither. Rebels wouldn’t be so frivolous with their 
ammo. Government troops would have a column of vehicles, squads 
of men fanned out on the roadside, carriers. That sort of thing.”

“Then who are they? Who’s shooting at whom?” asked Ludwig, his 
voice anxious, unsteady.

“That’s not really important. It’s people we need to run away 
from, right now,” Ethan said as he pulled out a Browning High 
Power pistol from his backpack and drove home a clip.

“You have a gun?” asked Ludwig, as if he had never imagined he’d 
see one up close. Ethan loaded a bullet in the chamber and 
clicked the safety on. 

“It’s American but it’ll do nicely. Gather your people and just 
go. Pack nothing, just follow the ravine eastwards till 
nightfall. If all goes well, I’ll try and meet up with you by 
morning. If not, wait it out another day before coming back,” 
said Ethan with a grave expression. The echoes of gunfire grew 
apart in time.

“What? That’s preposterous, we can’t leave everything behind! 
What are you saying?” said Ludwig, arms raised in dubious 
protest. Another rattling sound echoed, this time stronger; 
closer than before. The sound of motors revved up high could be 
heard, faintly but clearly.

“I’m saying these folks are trigger-happy bastards. Can’t 
guarantee they’ll just take your stuff and leave.”

Ethan felt like he had to shout to make the doctor listen: “
You’re wasting time, go! Now!”

Ludwig hesitated for just a single moment, but then ran to the 
door. He barely paused in his stride to ask:

“What about the wounded, and the sisters? What about you?”

Ethan wiped the sweat of his forehead, gun in hand: “I’ll sell 
them bastards a front-page story they can’t refuse. I’ll do my 
best, promise. If it comes to it..” he said and nodded at the 
gun. “Now go!” he shouted. Ludwig nodded and ran off. He could be 
heard rousing people, urging them to put on their boots and just 
follow him. Dumbfounded, groggy voices mixed with the shuffling 
of feet, thuds and protests. From the sound of it though, they 
were on the move.

The gunshots could be heard, growing weaker and further apart. 
The fight was dying out. Ethan packed a couple of clips in an 
ankle pocket. He grabbed his Leica, and tucked the gun away in 
his trousers, behind his back. He went looking for Nicole; he 
knew that his real priority would be to keep the two of them 
alive, if it all came down to that.

The chanting from the church had stopped. A few of the sisters 
were crowded together outside the church doors. They stared 
through the wide open gate at the hazy hillside, as if waiting 
for some sign. Some were praying softly.

The sound of roaring motors had by now become clearly closer. 
Mingled with the sounds of churned dirt and gravel from the 
rovers’ tires, it was an uneasy, threatening sound by its own. 
The absence of gunshots meant they were moving up towards the 
monastery again, unhindered.

Nicole rushed outside the small hall where the wounded and the 
sick lay. She was wearing a plain work apron, her hair tied in a 
bun. Ethan saw her then and rushed towards her, his camera 
swinging wildly from the strap around his neck. She barely seemed 
to take notice of him; she was staring at the shabby road and the 
approaching rovers with a cold, crisp fixation. Anger seethed 
clearly through her. Ethan told her with urgency in his voice:

“You need to keep calm. I think I can handle this. Follow my lead 
when you can, and don’t just hand over everything. If they sense 
we’re scared shitless, they’ll stop at nothing. I’ll try and sell 
them a news story, front page on the Times. You just stay firm. 
They might want to check up on the infirmary. Let them.”

“Keep calm? That’s your advice? Stay firm? What makes you think 
you can talk things over with them? We can’t. We can’t just talk.”

Ethan was taken aback. It was an unwelcome surprise; he hadn’t 
expected her to be so rigid. Feisty was one thing, but not 
playing ball when guns were involved was childish, even stupid 
and possibly lethal.

“Listen, the head doctor is already trying to make a run for it 
in the ravine. They’ve left everything behind. Maybe all that 
stuff from the caravan will be more than enough to keep them 
satisfied. There’s morphine in there and lots of canned -”

“You think they’re looking for a fix? And some corn beef? You 
just take care now, Ethan.”

She gave Ethan a cold dismissive look and shook her head 
slightly, disapprovingly. Ethan frowned and was about to say 
something when a rover zipped past the gates haphazardly. A dozen 
men armed with AK-47s rode on the back, most of them wearing 
combat fatigues. Few piece of clothing matched their size, and 
most were certainly at least a size or two larger.

Only a couple of them wore shoddy boots; the rest rode barefoot. 
They had grim, lean faces. They were mostly skin and bones like 
on the edge of starvation, but their red-shot eyes shone with a 
cruel, alarming intensity. In the back of the faded green and 
grey rover lay two dead bodies, the white of their feet marred by 
the red of their blood.

The sisters stood motionless, following the example of the sister 
superior, who was looking at the band of marauding bandits with 
contempt that bordered on hate.

Another rover passed through the gate. It braked badly and skid 
for a few feet on the courtyard dirt. Another ten men, slightly 
yet markedly better fed, better equipped. Some wore sunglasses, 
some berets and caps. Ethan noticed a big brute of a man sitting 
in the co-driver’s seat. Once everyone else had jumped off the 
rover, he stepped out. He was wearing spotless combat fatigues as 
if they had just been pressed. He wore the insignia of a Major. 
It was a good thing he didn’t seem familiar at all. 

“That’s their leader; if we get to him, the rest will follow,” he 
said to Nicole who was eying the bandits with seeping, fervent 
anger. She did not answer; she gave Ethan a sharp accusing look 
and simply turned away. The next moment she lost herself inside 
the impromptu hospital room.

Ethan called after her, but she ignored him. It was at that point 
when he attracted the attention of one of the armed men, who 
pointed his rifle at him and shouted something incomprehensible; 
it sounded like Igbo but not a dialect Ethan could understand 
clearly.

Ethan put his hands up and grinned like an idiot, trying to look 
the part of a mildly insignificant, completely harmless fool of a 
journalist. The armed bandit was still aiming the rifle at him, 
shouting incoherently, looking back and forth nervously. Ethan 
thought it could be he was asking ’should I shoot him?’; it could 
be he was asking ’can I shoot him?’. It would’ve made little 
difference had that been the case though.

The burly man was overlooking the sisters with one hand cradling 
a short-barreled version of an AK-47; the paratrooper version. In 
his hands, it looked little more than a large handgun. He 
motioned with his free hand and half a dozen men fanned out by 
two’s, going inside the rooms and halls on the west side of the 
monastery.

The rising heat added to the tension; Ethan was sweating. He was 
hoping Ludwig had gotten everybody out in time; more people would 
mean more problems to solve. He was also hoping Nicole wasn’t 
thinking of doing anything stupid. Stupid tended to pile on 
stupid, and that tended to make people end up dead or worse.

He was searching for a sight of her, but to no avail; for the 
first time the thought entered his mind that perhaps she was 
already running away. It wouldn’t help him much, but it wouldn’t 
make things harder either.

Ethan’s self-appointed guard had stopped shouting; now he was 
grinning, showing a cave of a mouth. He was still aiming his gun 
though, and Ethan thought it was time to make his move. He 
shouted, “Look, press!” and pointing at his Leica he reached with 
the other hand at his vest’s chest pocket, fumbling for the press 
pass.

The guard instantly drew back the AKs loading arm carefully, 
waiting for Ethan to make the mistake of flinching. For a bunch 
of ragtag bandits, they exhibited quite the streak of a rather 
unexpected professionalism; stupid nervous people with guns 
would’ve shot him dead. Ethan glanced at the leader who was 
quietly coming his way, while the rest of his men loitered near 
the sisters pointing guns and casting leery glances. That man, 
Ethan thought, was probably the sole reason why these wretches 
behaved themselves almost like soldiers.

The leader approached Ethan gracefully, making sure his insignia 
was prominently visible. He silently reached at Ethan’s vest 
pocket and pulled out his press pass, signed and stamped by the 
IPA and the UN in one of the British embassy’s cultural attache’s 
offices. The leader took a look at it and read aloud with a 
thick, grossly cacophonous accent:

“Richard Owls. London Times. Lost?” he asked with a grin that 
showed perfect white teeth and more than a couple of gold 
casings.

“Just doing a story,” replied Ethan and added “Major, sir,” with 
an afterthought, hoping to feed the man’s ego. Indeed he smiled 
when he heard the rank, and offered Ethan his press pass back. He 
took a quick look around him, the sun glinting off his black Ray 
Bans. Whoever the man was, he was turning in a profit, Ethan 
thought. When he spoke again, he wasn’t smiling anymore:

“I’m a moody person. Lost two men on the way. Why are you here? 
What’s so important about nuns?”

Ethan didn’t have a very hard time faking intimidation. The man 
was imposing enough. Reminded him a bit of his friend James, only 
without the redeeming qualities. He replied with some difficulty, 
trying to find the words:

“The missionary work.. Taking care of people in the middle of a 
war. Their stoic manner; really good press back home. Good press 
anywhere, really. Takes the focus away from the British 
involvement, too. Wins points with my editor.” 

The brute looked at him as if examining a weird kind of exotic 
fly; it was a distant, focused stare. “Politics, journalists. 
Same shit, eh?” he said suddenly and laughed out loud all alone, 
his laughter echoing faintly in the relative silence of the 
monastery’s courtyard.

“Just doing my job, major, sir,” replied Ethan with a faint 
smile, his eyes still trying to steal a glimpse of Nicole; she 
must’ve really gone, he thought to himself.

The sisters were huddled close together, as if waiting for a 
verdict on them. The sister superior was eying him and the leader 
of the bandits intensely. Maybe she was thinking of doing 
something stupid herself. That would complicate things right when 
he was trying to achieve a sense of rapprochement, if anything 
like that could be achieved with the likes of these people.

“I’m no major, Dick. I’ll call you Dick. No Major Yuembe anymore. 
I’m King, King Yuembe!” shouted the so-called Major, triumphantly 
raising both arms in the air. He fired off a couple of shots, 
eliciting a response of wild shots in the air from his men who 
cheered and eyed the sisters with venomous stares. They looked 
barely able to hold themselves; another example in forced 
discipline. He laughed heartily once more, before settling down 
his gaze towards Ethan once more. Ethan pitched the idea of the 
story he had been working on in his mind:

“I think you’d make the perfect story, really. I could show the 
world your living conditions, the way you’re defending your 
freedom. Add a bit about your back-story, where you came from, 
what made you quit the army. It’d be a fantastic piece, a world 
first,” Ethan said and aimed the camera at Yuembe. He took on a 
haughty pose like a model, indeed the kind of self-gratifying 
stance photographers tend to think is fit for nobility portraits. 
The camera clicked, and Ethan rolled the film a couple more 
times, taking a few more shots. Then Yuembe yanked the camera off 
its straps suddenly, and Ethan felt his plan wasn’t working the 
way it should.

“I’ll keep that film. I like pictures; but I don’t like the 
publicity. Understand?”

Ethan nodded, frowning warily. He replied carefully:

“No problem. I can see it could hamper your activities; I can do 
a text piece only, full page with stock photos or something,” he 
said, insisting on trying to stroke the man’s ego. He knew it 
wouldn’t work when the man took the film out of the camera and 
tucked it inside a pocket. He then just threw the camera away, 
breaking the lens. He then asked Ethan, edging his face closer to 
his the way a boxer might before a fight:

“You think we are freedom fighters?” he said through teeth almost 
clenched shut. Ethan’s frown became a deep, long furrow. Looking 
distraught and casting glances around him, he looked completely 
at a loss. To complete the show, he said weakly:

“Well, of course.”

Yuembe broke down in laughter and said something in that dialect 
Ethan couldn’t quite get. All the men laughed along in earnest, 
pointing at Ethan like a freak exhibit. Maybe writing up a story 
wouldn’t hold, but the stupid journalist ploy still had something 
in it, just maybe, Ethan thought to himself.

Some of the men that had been searching around the monastery 
called out, grabbing Yuembe’s attention. They had found the 
caravan’s Rovers and supplies. Yuembe and his men exchanged a few 
words from a distance, more like shouts. Then he picked a few of 
them by eying them alone, motioned with a hand and another half a 
dozen men left their guns behind. Soon they started loading the 
crates with the red cross first onto their own trucks.

The sister superior was talking with some sisters in a low-keyed 
voice; they seemed somewhat relieved. It was beginning to look 
like the bandits would simply loot what they could and leave. 
Organised and disciplined as they seemed to be, they were nothing 
more than dangerous, cruel thieves. 

Yuembe then took out a camo pattern handkerchief and wiped the 
sweat from his brow. He took off his glasses and wiped the lenses 
as well; his round black eyes were big and calm, the eyelashes 
almost delicate. They belonged to a man who should’ve become an 
artist or a doctor, maybe even a priest. In any case, they didn’t 
look like the kind of eyes that belonged to a professional lethal 
parasite.

That grin of his gave him away; Ethan had seen that grin once too 
many. He knew even himself had sported such a grin at times past. 
The thought disturbed him and for a minute he was out of 
character, looking grim and serious all of a sudden. Yuembe saw 
the change on his face; he was instantly intrigued. He looked at 
Ethan from head to toe, scanning him slowly, measuring him. He 
asked him then, hands around his waist, the Ray Bans protruding 
from his chest pocket:

“You do not approve? Wouldn’t look good on your story?” he said 
and then made a motion in the air with his free hand, stopping at 
the mention of each word like showing off a neon headline sign: “
Former Nigerian Army Major Pillages Monastery.”

Ethan simply shook his head. Yuembe went on with what he had in 
mind: 

“I am not a man of the press, like you. But I know what spices up 
a story,” he said, winked and nodded towards the sisters who were 
still clutching their rosaries. Some of them praying on their 
knees, some of them simply staring the men who guarded them 
straight in the eye, as if they thought shame alone could turn 
them away.

“Major, there’s nothing more to gain here other than those sacks 
of rice, those crates of medications and the canned food. That’s 
all there is,” Ethan said, thinking he should at least try and 
reason with the man, even though he seemed to be toying with 
ideas that went beyond looting.

“Been here long enough, Mr. Owls? Are you sure that’s all? Maybe 
you and I have different tastes in things,” Yuembe said with a 
devilish grin and then barked an order.

Another half a dozen men complied and went inside the eastern 
blocks of the monastery. Pretty soon, one of them shouted back 
from the impromptu hospital. Another was holding a vest with a 
red cross painted on it. Some groggy voices and malformed 
protests were put down after a few slaps and kicks laid the 
patients back on their beds for good.

Yuembe shouted back more orders, looking pissed; veins shot from 
his temples and neck. He didn’t seem to care about the red cross 
or the infirmary and the people inside. That was good; it mean 
Ludwig and his people were probably safe and not a moment too 
soon. Probably Nicole as well. He had thought she might help him 
sound more convincing, but she was still nowhere to be seen. 
Maybe she’d proved a problem in any case, Ethan thought.

His thoughts where cut short when he suddenly heard a shout from 
one of Yuembe’s men, and then saw bloodied pieces of skull bounce 
off a door, the rest of the bandit’s body slumping against it a 
flick of an eye later, when the gunshot was heard. A high 
velocity rifle. Though a familiar sound to Ethan, he had been 
more than just surprised to see its effects so vividly at that 
point.

Everyone froze still; it was the sisters panicked shrieks and 
loud prayers that roused everyone back into a frenzied random 
activity. Ethan hesitated; if someone had stayed behind trying to 
be a hero, should he go all out and take a shot at Yuembe right 
now? What about the sisters? They were completely exposed. No, he 
decided he couldn’t risk their lives.

Yuembe aimed his AK nervously at Ethan, and shouted at his men 
infuriated. They quickly aimed their guns at windows and 
doorways, covering the rest; a couple of them grabbed the sisters 
by force one by one, and started to tie their hands together.

A couple of sisters tried to resist, spitting and kicking their 
way away. Yuembe’s men used the AKs shoulder-guards like clubs; 
the nuns suffered. A few cracks were heard; bones were broken. 
The sister superior’s proud facade had collapsed; she was now 
begging the men in whatever dialect ran through her tongue, with 
what few words she knew. Their captors seemed to enjoy their 
work, smiling as they heard the wailings and sobs of the hapless 
sisters. Yuembe shouted on the top of his lungs:

“Come out now and I won’t hurt the sisters. I’ll let you and them 
live, just as soon as I get what I came for. You and I both know 
I want the-”. His voice became little more than a gurgle as his 
head exploded violently, shrapnel of his skull flying away in all 
directions. His body fell backwards from the overwhelming force 
of the bullet, the AK falling off his limp hand on the ground 
with a thud.

Ethan’s eyes were scanning for the shooter while his hands 
instinctively went for his gun. He was already moving towards the 
cover of the nearby arches. There was no hope in hell that he’d 
talk the rest of them out of this: for one thing, he didn’t even 
speak that damnable dialect, and for another, they were already 
letting off a blind hail of bullets at the mud-and-hay brick 
walls of the monastery, trying for the shooter. All they 
accomplished though was leave behind large pockmarks on the 
walls, splintered doors and spent bullet casings.

The bandits shouted at each other, confused and dismayed. Some 
looked like they were itching to just shoot the sisters dead. One 
of them cried something like a war shout and let off a single 
round that went through one of the nuns like a hammer through 
ice. The bullet took apart almost her whole left side; blood, 
bone and guts spilled freely through tattered robes. She crumbled 
like a rag doll on the dirt before the church gate, twitches and 
spasms running through her body. Her dying throes were little 
more than a wet cough, deafeningly loud among the silence of the 
sisters.

A man with a beret knocked some teeth out of the shooter with his 
rifle’s shoulder-guard, rendering him unconscious. The rest fired 
off wild shots at windows, more or less blindly.

The sisters started to weep. The sister superior held her cross 
in hand, tears running down her cheek; still she whispered the 
dead sister’s rites softly in her ear.

Another gunshot was heard; it missed a bandit on the back of one 
of the Rovers by an inch. The ricochet bullet grazed him behind 
one ear and caused him to fall on his back down on the ground.

Ethan was now working on instinct and training alone; he would 
pick his targets, going in for the kill. He pulled out his gun 
and rushed towards the rover parked in front of the sisters and 
the church. He silently thanked God and his good fortune that 
Yuembe and his men had fallen for the journalist trick, sloppy 
enough not to bother actually checking him for weapons.

One of Yuembe’s men saw him appearing behind one of the arches, 
purposefully coming towards them. He pointed with one hand and 
shouted a warning, instead of shooting. Two rounds went through 
the bandit, and threw him off his feet a couple of feet away. The 
shots left his chest in ruins; his lungs and heart a ruptured 
mess.

Ethan switched targets and went for one of the men wearing a 
beret. He let another couple of rounds fly, the Browning nine 
millimeter pulsating in his double-action grip with body-shaking 
force. Years of experience and shooting training brought Ethan’s 
aim lower to compensate for the recoil; aim slightly below center 
of mass, double-tap the trigger, swing the body and aim another. 
Repeat. It was as easy as riding a bike if one didn’t stop to 
think about the killing involved.

As he swung to take down another one, there was a sharp whizzing 
sound. He felt a hot rush of air near the back of his head. He 
turned around to look and saw to his right a man down on the 
ground, trying to grasp his neck with both hands. He bleeding 
profusely, his legs flailing wildly as spurts of blood turned 
into a red fuzzy mist through his fingers.

The shooter was good; a professional from the likes of it. He had 
probably just saved his life, but there wasn’t time for allowing 
the thought to cloud his senses. Another bandit appeared from 
behind a half-wrecked window and let off a ripple of bullets from 
his AK. He kept shouting like a crazed madman while shooting, 
aiming at nowhere in particular; the kick of the AK sent the 
bullets plainly at the old, pitted and stained tiled roof, 
breaking away and chipping whole sections.

Still firing away and before emptying his clip, he was blown back 
by the force of two bullets, one hitting him square in the 
stomach and another in his chest. If his heart didn’t stop 
outright, he’d have time enough to meet God when his gut wound 
ate his insides.

The sisters were busy untying themselves amidst the confusion. 
They rushed to the inside of the temple, trying to carry their 
dead sister with a modicum of decency. They lifted her up, 
hugging her spilled entrails in their lap.

As they did so, their former captors and guards let off another 
hail of fire from their AKs trying to take Ethan down; they were 
controlled, but badly aimed bursts. Yuembe would have probably 
made good soldiers out of them if it wasn’t for their horrid aim 
and their complete lack of cover discipline.

Out in the open with every part of their body exposed and firing 
from the hip, their chances of hitting Ethan laying dirt-low 
behind a series of arches, were slim if not none. Their chances 
became zero when a bullet went through one of them in the 
shoulder; the exit wound was the size of a basketball, turning 
his spine into a shredded ruin.

The other one of the pair knelt and raised his rifle to take aim 
at the direction of the shooter. Ethan rolled out of cover and 
popped three shots at him; one caught him in the leg, tearing up 
his calf. Another one hit the dirt and the last one went through 
his armpit and neck, cutting an artery open. It left him a dying 
man, unable to even flinch at the scorching sun casting its glare 
at his fading eyes.

Ethan leaped to his feet again and rushed towards the sisters and 
the church, attracting a very unhealthy amount of fire from the 
west wing of the monastery. The bandits that had been on search 
detail there were now laying down covered, taking pot shots 
whenever they thought it was prudent. The shooter had put real 
fear in their hearts.

A couple of those who had left their guns behind to carry sacks 
and crates tried to make a run towards the Rovers for their AKs. 
One of them fell stone dead, leg-first, as if he’d hit his head 
while running, another excellent shot from the unknown shooter. 
His mortal wound was remarkably clean; the bullet had went 
straight through the heart, imploding it and settling down the 
exit velocity to a lot less damaging value. The other one just 
dashed towards a low-walled flower fence and jumped over, 
creeping away back into a semblance of adequate cover.

Ethan went past the church’s entrance and saw the sisters hugging 
around the body of their dead one. He grabbed the sister superior 
by one arm, while she was clearly paying no attention to her 
surroundings, her face deathly pale, her eyes without focus. 
Instinctively she tried to shake him off. He caught her stare and 
tried to convey a sense of calm. Panic wouldn’t get them 
anywhere; it could only lead to senseless death. He told her then 
while stray shots seemed to edge dangerously close judging by the 
plaster and chipped wood flying around them:

“Lie down, and spread around. Throw the benches for cover. And 
pray, sister!”

She nodded then as if magically awaken from a deep slumber. He 
couldn’t help noticing her wrinkled, bloodied face looked 
strangely attractive for someone her age and posture. Ethan bowed 
his head to her hand and whispered “’er grace,’” and then carried 
along. He stood for a few moments by the temple’s door. When he 
heard the distinctive bolt-action gunshot of the mysterious 
shooter he decided to sprint away to a better location; one of 
the rovers.

He placed three shots at the windows up on high on the western 
edge while running. He wasn’t hoping on actually hitting 
anything, but he was sure these guys would instinctively duck 
when they heard the shots, sparing him a precious couple of 
seconds to make a more or less safe passage. He’d heard the gun 
go empty; he’d need a chance to reload soon.

When he reached the Rover, he saw the flash of a scope barely 
visible near the church bell tower. He couldn’t make out who it 
was; the sun was still rising directly behind him, blinding those 
who dared to take a shot. Clever, natural cover. Still, down on 
the courtyard from near the makeshift hospital, two more of the 
late Major Yuembe’s men appeared, firing on full auto towards the 
bell tower as they went.

Those on the western dormitories felt like contributing, so they 
popped out of their covers and placed single shots against the 
bell tower, rather blindly. The shooter let one shot fly; the 
cracking echo of the bolt-action came right after the thud of the 
dead body on the ground. But no other shots followed.

Ethan peeked from behind the Rover; the other man was still on 
the courtyard, nervously trying to find cover while surveying the 
rooftop for the shooter. Those on the west side had no clear 
target, and decided to take their chances at Ethan and the Rover.

He switched the empty clip with a new full one; if this kept for 
much time longer he’d need to pick one of the AKs lying all 
around for himself. A cacophony of bullets ricocheting off thick 
metal engulfed him; the Rover’s thick metal chassis was as good a 
cover as any. It wasn’t impervious, but it was good enough for 
such a tight spot. Maybe half a dozen men took shots at him from 
the western dormitories; perhaps more lurked somewhere in the 
eastern wing. Worse still, the unknown shooter had been forced to 
reposition. Less cover for him then for another couple of 
minutes.

Ethan slithered slowly towards the front of the Rover. The engine 
block would provide better cover. As he did so, he kept his gun 
trained towards the eastern rooms. If a head or a gun popped from 
somewhere out there, he’d simply squeeze.

He then suddenly saw the one that had come running towards the 
bell tower underneath the first Rover, trying to aim his AK at 
him while flat on the dirt. Ethan thought he saw him grinning but 
he wasn’t sure; he simply brought his Browning in front of him 
and fired three shots in rapid succession; the man let off his 
own shot but the sight of Ethan’s gun alone opposite him was 
enough to let his aim stray.

Still, the bulled grazed Ethan slightly over his left shoulder; 
his third shot went wild and punctured a tire. The second and 
first though went through the man’s neck and spine. He lay there 
under the Rover, paralyzed and bleeding, choking on his own 
blood.

A small pin-prick of a flash made Ethan turn around, gun in hand 
ready to shoot. As the blinding light turned away from his face 
for a moment, he saw more clearly now the unknown shooter. The 
gun was an M1903 bolt-action, sniper variant with scope. And the 
shooter was, much to Ethan’s surprise, no-one else but Nicole.

He didn’t have time to think about that revelation for long; 
another hail of wild gunfire forced her aside, behind a thick 
wide arch. He heard indistinct shouts in that unknown dialect, 
and then more gunshots were heard. None of them landed anywhere 
near him or Nicole. He sacrificed some cover for a better view, 
quickly scanning for targets. He couldn’t see any. He decided to 
make a move then. He shouted:

“Nicole! Cover me!”

He sprang up then and ran without aiming his gun. He just run 
towards the west wing; a single shot was heard. One of the 
bandits wanted to take the opportunity against Ethan, but 
Nicole’s aim had proven a lethal discouragement for anyone else 
as well.

When Ethan reached the low-walled fence, he jumped over it and 
rolled sideways. He scanned aft and fore and saw no-one. The 
Rovers were still sitting there, half-loaded with the caravan’s 
supplies. Behind him, a flimsy wooden staircase led to the upper 
floor. There were pools of blood dripping down the staircase, and 
traces of wounded bodies being drawn inside rooms.

He looked in Nicole’s direction. She was giving him a thumbs up. 
He went inside each room methodically, pushing the door open and 
then peeking inside before rushing inside in a crouch. He saw 
bodies of Yuembe’s men. Most were shot in the back. Two of them 
had shot each other, their bodies laying against opposite walls. 
It seemed to Ethan like the paper-thin veneer of what little 
comradeship and professionalism these bandits seemed to exhibit 
crumbled when Yuembe’s head got blown off. Their panic and their 
petty squabbles had undone them completely. Some might’ve fled on 
foot, but they’ve left no reason behind to return.

The search on the upper rooms yielded the bodies of those who had 
felt lucky or proficient enough to take down Ethan or Nicole. 
When he felt it was safe, Ethan shouted from an open wound to 
Nicole, “All clear!”. She gave a thumbs up and disappeared back 
into the infirmary.

What a firefight, Ethan thought while overlooking the courtyard 
from that higher vantage point. He began counting bodies without 
even being conscious of it, and then he saw one of the bodies was 
actually moving towards the church, gun in hand. His raised his 
gun to aim clearly and fired away without his usual control; the 
bandit though still had time enough to let off a ripple of fire 
before the bullets struck home.

He slumped down on his knees, and fell face down on the dirt, 
blood oozing around him. Ethan ran down the staircase shouting at 
the top of his lungs:

“Nicole! Check the church!”

As he did so, Nicole had already reappeared, this time with a 
Beretta in hand; she moved along hugging the walls with all the 
care in the world.

Ethan could see the sunlight etching shadows inside the church, 
but not a shadow that moved. As he came closer he yelled:

“Sisters! Sister Superior! Is everyone alright?”

As he reached the church door, he saw a the trembling figures of 
a few of the sisters. Some of them sat still, frozen in shock. 
Two of them lay down, around a pool of blood. One of them was the 
sister superior; her sisters had closed her eyes, and covered her 
with cloth from the Holy Table. The other sister was a young 
thing, perhaps the younger of them all. She was lying in front of 
the sister, her body mangled horribly; she had thrown herself in 
the way of the bullets but that had not been enough. It never 
really is, Ethan thought almost cynically.

Nicole was breathing laboriously when she came next to Ethan. He 
spared a glance at her, but said nothing. As her breathing 
returned to normal, she lowered her Beretta and slumped herself 
against a large wooden chair, drenched in sweat and dirt. She had 
the smell of gunpowder about her.

One of the nuns, still bent over the sister superior’s body 
turned and asked Ethan with a croaky voice:

“Is it over?”

He nodded almost absentmindedly. Then he turned to look at Nicole 
and asked her with a deep frown and an almost unforgiving stare:

“I thought you would do something stupid.”

She shook her head, and looked him squarely in the eye. He saw 
the truth behind that glazed look and those weary words, when she 
said:

“Have some decency. Let’s talk outside if you must.”

Ethan nodded, made the sign of the cross and walked outside 
towards the Rover. The sun was starting to fill most of the 
courtyard. As the adrenaline rush wore off, the smell of blood 
and gunpowder assaulted his nostrils. He tried not to inhale too 
deeply and focused his stare on the church tower, ridden with 
bullet marks. He heard something drop behind him; he turned and 
saw Nicole on her knees, heaving her guts. He fought the 
compulsion to do so as well.

He approached her and helped on her feet. She got up and tucked 
the Beretta in one of her pockets, and walked to a water basin on 
a wall recess near the church. Ethan followed close behind her. 
He noticed she had a slightly limp gait; she was hurt. He asked 
her:

“Bullet grazed your leg?”

She shook her head and said without turning:

“No, sprained ankle probably.”

“Where did you learn to shoot like that?”

She shrugged and cupped her hands full of water from the basin. 
She washed her mouth and spat in the dirt before she replied:

“Algiers.”

“You mean, the Battle of Algiers?” Ethan said as if finding it 
difficult to grasp. 

She nodded slowly and leaned her back on the wall, and untied her 
hair. The grit and sweat had turned them into a mess. She looked 
at him with a weary smile and replied:

“That’s where I lost my faith, Ethan.”

He looked at her with puzzlement. He asked her then:

“I mean, how?”

“It so happened the aid station I was volunteering got in the 
way. For two nights, we had to fight for our lives. Every able 
bodied man and woman,” she said, folding her hands together.

Ethan shook his head and bit his lip. He took a look around him 
and then gazed at the church as if it were miles away. He said to 
Nicole then, his voice carrying a thoughtful tone:

“So you’ve got your own share, then.”

“My share of what, Ethan? My share of blood and guts?” she 
retorted with a flush of anger.

He looked at her through a flutter of his eyes and said with a 
shallow, gritty voice:

“Your share of guilt.”

Her face softened and the edges of her lips fell flat. She stood 
away from the wall for a moment, and then started walking past 
Ethan towards the infirmary. He watched her as she put a hand in 
her eye, wiping away a tear. He then looked at the church and the 
bell tower before closing his eyes and letting the warm sun touch 
his face, inch by inch.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

James was overlooking a large map of the area west of the Niger, 
stretched out against a wall of his shadowy office. Small pins 
marked places of interest, unit positions and enemy contacts. His 
hand traced a road to the east, and then he placed another, 
different sort of marker pin there, before smiling thinly to 
himself. He paced around the office with hands behind his back, 
and stopped for a while to take a look outside; he opened the 
window blinds and gleaming white sunlight filled the room.

There was nothing unusual about the small garden plaza: officers 
were milling about, doing mostly nothing of real value, making up 
plans that rarely went ahead or were executed the way they had 
been conceived. James turned and looked at the ceiling fan; it 
was going at full speed, casting shadows that seemed to playfully 
dance around the room, but it did little to make the heat a 
little more bearable.

James heard a knock on the door. He loudly but curtly said “
Enter!”

The door opened and a young white man bearing the insignia of a 
Captain was holding a couple of manila folders in one hand. He 
saluted briskly with the other and said in an almost casual way, “
Major, sir. I have your daily brief.”

James simply nodded and motioned the captain to sit down, which 
he promptly did so. James was having ice cold tea, a small - 
though invaluable - luxury; a large glass jug filled with tea was 
sitting on a corner of his desk. Lemons and ice cubes were 
floating inside. James asked the Captain:

“Tea, Captain?”

“No, thank you very much sir,” replied the Captain smiling 
politely.

“This heat, it’s a real scorcher isn’t it?” asked James casually. 
The captain nodded his affirmation.

“It’s supposed to be the rainy season too,” he replied and 
shrugged slightly.

“But like the English say, when it rains, it pours. Doesn’t it?” 
asked James, looking at the Captain in a strange, penetrating 
way. The Captain seemed to ignore the look, and presented the 
folders to James. They were clear and unmarked, except for a red 
rubber-stamped `Confidential’ across the front.

James took the proffered folders and tossed them on his desk. He 
sat down as well, the Captain fidgeting on the chair, trying to 
feel the waft of the ceiling fan; the intolerable heat had sweat 
piling up on his brow. James put on a pair of glasses and opened 
the first folder. He started browsing the folder, sipping on some 
ice cold tea along the way. In a couple of minutes, he’d skimmed 
through most of the folder, and he had picked up the second one.

The Captain realised that and was awaken from his heat-induced 
stupor to ask;

“Excuse me, Major sir, but you’ve finished already?”

“I have. Is there a problem?”

“No sir, it’s just that I’m required to ensure that the 
intelligence briefing is read, and then returned. No copies can 
be made.”

“I’ve done this before, Captain. Now if you will, can I finish 
the second one? This will only take a couple of minutes,” said 
James, smiled thinly and went back to reading the folder.

Heed no prayer

Ludwig was sweating profoundly, slowly packing small boxes of 
essential medicine onto one of the Rovers. The sun had begun its 
descent beyond the surrounding hills, but the heat and moisture 
was intolerably unabated. Ethan was helping Nicole load the 
wounded Red Cross people in two of the Rovers.

The patients from the infirmary would ride in the open-top Rovers 
the bandits had left behind. Two of them needed a stretcher, bad 
cases of malaria. The rest were mostly kids, left to fend on 
their own.

Though bullet-ridden and shoddy-looking the Rovers worked fine; 
they would have to do. Ethan needed to keep just one of the Red 
Cross Rovers. Ludwig had indulged him without pausing to think 
about it; for all it mattered, he had saved their lives. 

The sisters, fourteen souls left in all, would ride along with 
the caravan carrying their meager belongings. They were leaving 
little of real value behind them. As they climbed inside the back 
of the Rovers, Ethan took a moment to watch them intently. Nicole 
had just stopped for a smoke. He turned and told her then with a 
flat, calculating expression:

“Look at them. Three of them dead. Vacant stares, hollow gazes. 
Still, they keep their rosaries in hand, muttering prayers. Will 
that make them feel better about it?”

She let a small cloud of smoke hazily drift away from her as she 
sat with her back against the Rover’s door, legs crossed at her 
ankles, one hand in her apron’s pocket. She smiled thinly before 
she replied:

“Maybe they’re thankful for being alive. Maybe they’re mourning. 
Leave the poor women be. Does everything have to make sense to 
you?”

He crossed his arms in front of his chest and cast a thoughtful 
gaze towards the small graveyard where only a couple of hours ago 
they had buried the three sisters, alongside the bandits. The 
surviving nuns had insisted on it. He shook his head 
absentmindedly then and said:

“It never really does. I’m only saying, how can they go on after 
what’s happened?”

She laughed with a bitter crease around her lips and replied:

“It’s people just like them that do go on. Faith, remember? I’ve 
talked to their new superior. She’s decided to dissolve the 
order. I’m not sure she can really do that on her own, but she 
seemed quite resolved. Each will have to go her own way. She 
probably thinks it’ll help them heal over time.”

Ethan was looking at the nuns’ faces; they were too pale for the 
likes of the Nigerian sun anyway, he thought to himself.

“Maybe they will, maybe they won’t. But just going on pretending 
they’re stronger than they really are..”

He let his voice trail off, shaking his head in disbelief. Nicole 
was about to say something when they both saw Ludwig approaching 
them, wiping his forehead and arms from the sweat in vain; in a 
minute he’d be sweating once more. He nodded to Nicole and 
smiled, but turned to talk to Ethan, slightly out of breath:

“We’re ready. We should be at Lagos by morning. Once we do get 
back on the tarmac, we’ll notify the Lagos office about what 
happened, head straight for the hospital.”

“How’s everyone?”

“The wounded are stable. Everyone’s shaken, closed to themselves 
mostly. Some are still scared. Even needed sedation,” said the 
doctor and shrugged somehow apologetically. Ethan simply nodded. 
The doctor continued:

“I can’t thank you enough for what you’ve done really. We could 
actually hear the gunfight, but we kept running, just like you 
said. The sisters said you had some help.”

He looked at Nicole sideways then but he was smiling gently, his 
eyes gleaming softly. Nicole shuffled as if feeling uncomfortable 
and said to the doctor without looking back:

“Not that much there, really.”

Ethan placed a kind hand on the doctor’s shoulder but before he 
could speak, Ludwig let out a snort of a laugh and said:

“I get it Ethan. When we get back, I’ll need to file a report; an 
inquiry will ensue. Perhaps I’ll be charged. Then I expect 
there’ll be some uproar from the embassies, the press. People 
will hear about this, certainly.”

Ethan’s gaze for a moment turned sour while Nicole shot a worried 
glance at Ludwig but he went on, this time with a somber look on 
his face:

“I know what you’re thinking. The minefield, the bandits. The 
sisters getting killed. People’s memories do become jarred from 
experiences like these. Frankly, some genuinely don’t recall 
there even was a journalist along. And the sisters, well.. Poor 
souls have a lot on their minds now. Not to mention there’s a war 
going on.”

Ethan nodded, grinning shamelessly. Though the cloak and dagger 
routine had largely lost its meaning now that the caravan was 
turning back, the doctor had turned out to be a welcome though 
strange and unlikely ally. He extended a hand, which the doctor 
promptly gripped. Ethan then said:

“I take it you’ll cover for me,” he said before turning to look 
at Nicole and adding “For us, anyway. Thanks, Ludwig.”

Nicole nodded halfheartedly, while the doctor replied:

“The way things turned out I should be thanking you, Ethan. I’m 
convinced that without you, we’d be dead or maybe worse.”

The doctor shook Ethan’s hand and looked him in the eye with a 
sobering, stone-hard gaze. The lifeless mangled bodies of the 
three dead nuns came unbidden to his mind then and he was unable 
to meet Ludwig’s stare. He nodded limply and the doctor caught 
him by the arm, telling him reassuringly:

“Look, you saved lives. That’s what matters in my line of 
business. Save as many as you can.”

“I know Ludwig. It’s just that..”

Ethan hesitated; he felt unable to find the right words. Nicole 
jumped in, a dull expression on her face, her voice a gritty 
affair:

“You feel sorry for them?”

He turned to look at her with bewildered puzzlement. He asked her 
with evident confusion:

“You mean the sisters? Of course, I mean -”

“Saving the world now?” she said with a vicious stare that marred 
her features. She almost spat out the words.

Ethan blinked furiously while Ludwig simply stood there. They 
felt something they had said had ticked off Nicole.

“Listen, Nicole, I understand you -” he managed to blurt before 
she cut him mid-sentence and said “I don’t need your 
understanding!” before leaving them flabbergasted to watch her 
briskly pace towards her guestroom. Ethan made a motion to follow 
her but Ludwig reached an arm and blocked his path:

“It won’t help. She’s grieving. Try not to make it harder,” said 
Ludwig, rearranging his glasses slowly. Ethan turned to say 
something as if in protest, but he simply stood there, facing her 
way. He said to the doctor then:

“That’s not at all like her. I mean, I barely know her, but I 
wouldn’t think she’d take all this that hard.”

Ludwig shook his head and looked Ethan straight in the eye; 
despite their height difference he managed to sound like a 
teacher scolding a schoolboy:

“People died here today! Did you expect everyone to move along as 
if nothing out of the ordinary had happened? Business as usual?”

The doctor was almost glaring at Ethan, who coolly replied in a 
low, calm voice:

“There is a war going on. I wouldn’t expect that from everyone, 
but she’s seen war. She knows what it’s like and I believe that. 
It’s just.. odd. I mean, she’s acting odd. She killed maybe half 
or more of the bandits.”

Ludwig frowned and his forehead wrinkled, beads of sweat trailing 
his temples. He opened his mouth to speak, and almost stuttered 
the words:

“She killed?”

Ethan simply nodded and fixed his gaze at Nicole’s guestroom, his 
face a pensive, blank wall. The doctor spoke again:

“How?”

“Does it matter to you?”

“No, not really.”

“I thought so as well. Though I think I need to know wherever 
we’re going.”

“You’re planning to take her with you?”

Ethan nodded, hands on his waist. Ludwig asked with some 
reluctance:

“Then you two are..” he said, letting his voice trail rather 
uncomfortably. Ethan blinked and smiled somewhat lamely with a 
frown upon his face before shaking his head furiously. He told 
the doctor then:

“Good God, no. That kind of woman would be the death of me. 
Besides..”

“Not the time?”

Ethan shrugged and said:

“She’s taken.”

“Ah. I wouldn’t think you’d draw such a line.”

Ethan grinned despite himself and asked with a mocking tone:

“I’d say! A gentleman like meself, getting frisky with a lady in 
wedlock! Absurd!”

Ludwig shook his head with no hint of good humor other than a 
slight curl of his lip. He then wiped the sweat on his forehead 
with one sleeve, while he said to Ethan rather flatly:

“How can you joke about anything after all this?”

Ethan thought about it for a moment and then said rather 
mirthlessly:

“Won’t kill us now, will it?”

Ludwig looked at him with a pondering expression. Before he could 
reply, one of his staff shouted out for his attention. He gave a 
thumbs up; the engines of the Rovers roared into life one after 
the other. They were heading back. He then simply said to Ethan 
with a shrug:

“Well, thanks again. And good luck. Maybe we’ll meet again in a 
better place and time.”

“There’s always Heaven, doctor,” said Ethan with a shallow grin. 
The doctor shook his head, backtracked a few steps and then 
started jogging towards the open door of a waiting Rover. When he 
climbed aboard, he had one last glimpse of Ethan lighting a 
cigarette, and waving them goodbye.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

The moon was waxing low on the night sky. Its white sheen 
sometimes came through muddied through the wispy clouds that 
toiled lazily past it. And when the cool wind blew the murky 
clouds away, the shapeless shadows that covered everything below 
vanished within a swath of summer moonlight that could easily 
lure a man into thinking all was well in the world.

Such trappings of the mind were not new to Ethan; he’d seen first 
hand what such a serene, beguiling night could do to a man. 
Guards stabbed from behind inside their trenches, patrolmen lying 
dead on the ground, their throats slit open - their still warm 
blood misting in the chilly night air. The sudden feeling of a 
hand on his shoulder electrified him at first, and then sent a 
numbing sensation that grew all along his right side down to his 
hip.

He looked around as if in a dream, half-waiting for the thrust of 
a bayonet through his jugular. It was Nicole; the thought of how 
the hell she’d slipped behind him unnoticed sprang inside his 
mind. It was unnerving, more so for a soldier and doubly so for a 
Scout of the Royal Marines. `Damn her!’, he thought while he saw 
her grinning as if she’d had intended to catch him off-guard. Her 
voice sounded rather casual, but there was the barest glint of 
mischievous success about it:

“Did I startle you?”

There was a small moment of uncomfortable silence, before Ethan 
managed to answer:

“Well, yes. Yes, you did. Have you packed? We should set out now, 
if we want to reach Onitsha in the morning. Are you sure about 
these people you mentioned?”

She looked at him with a frown. The light of the oil lamp inside 
the room flickered around her face as if it danced to a rhythm of 
its own. She replied with a hurt tone, as if taken aback:

“Are you suggesting that they can’t be trusted?”

He got up from his chair and moved away from the way, his back 
resting against the dimly lit wall. He crossed his arms as if 
feeling threatened and said flatly:

“I’m suggesting something’s off. I’m suggesting this is all too 
much.”

Her face grew distant suddenly. She tilted her head and bit her 
lip before saying with a clear, hearty voice:

“You were the one who insisted on going back there for Andy. And 
I should thank you for that. It’s just that.. I’m doing all I 
can!”

Her face became contorted and it looked as if she was about to 
break down into sobs and cries for barely a moment. But she held 
on and said sharply:

“I risked my life back there. I could’ve left, I could’ve run 
away. I did for the sisters, I tried. But I did it for Andy, and 
you as well.”

“Now that’s what’s bugging me,” replied Andy, stabbing a pointing 
finger her way. He went on with an even, accusing tone of voice:

“You’re not just good with a rifle: you’re an excellent shot. You 
didn’t hesitate, you actually went inside and picked up that 
M1903. And by the way, that’s not exactly a Derringer. Neither is 
that Beretta. I mean, I’m not ungrateful or anything, but just 
how the fuck did you get hold of those? And since when does one 
become such a pro with a couple of weeks of fighting? Who the 
hell are you, really now?”

Nicole looked at him sternly at first for an itchy moment that 
faintly smelled of danger, but then her face dissolved in a 
small, tight smile abruptly. As if she could relax now, she sat 
down on the cot across the small table and the oil lamp and said 
to Ethan with a weird, all too American accent:

“I guess you’re not the only one playing in the shadows here, 
Ethan. My real name is Nicole Heurgot; but I’m Agency.”

Ethan eyes fluttered violently of their own volition. His hand 
went instinctively to the Browning laying reassuringly behind his 
back, but Nicole urged him:

“No, no. I mean I’m CIA. Please, that’s not necessary. Really, 
we’re in this together. I really am Andy’s wife. It’s just too 
darn complicated. He doesn’t really know who I work for. Never 
did. In a way, I am to blame for what’s happened to him.”

She looked downcast, glancing at Andy, waiting for some kind of 
explosion on his side, some kind of reproach or exclamation that 
never came. Instead, he sat back down on the chair and looked at 
Nicole as if she was barely there.

“CIA?”

She nodded slowly. Ethan took a small liquor bottle out of a 
chest pocket, opened it and had a swig. He barely grimaced while 
the Littlemill ran down his throat, and asked tersely:

“Some kind of mission, then?”

She nodded with some reluctance this time. Her face was 
withdrawn, almost expressionless but for the small, wordless 
movements of her mouth. Ethan gulped down a mouthful of 
Littlemill and almost yelled incredulously:

“A yank? A bloody yank? You’re telling me my brother’s married to 
a bloody yank spy?”

Nicole was staring at him without really knowing what to say. She 
half-smiled as if out of politeness and pressed the question 
somehow lamely:

“Maybe it’s a lot, but why not?”

Then Ethan broke into a fit of laughter that completely surprised 
Nicole, adding:

“He’s going to ask for a divorce when he finds out, you know. I’m 
not one for breaking up a marriage, but when I do tell him - and 
I will, mind you - the poor fellow will be demolished. Does he at 
least know you’re a yank?”

“He does. We were married in Louisiana, actually.”

“That’s were you’re from then?”

She nodded briskly and added: “Close by. Trois Rivieres.”

“Kind of makes sense. What about Algiers? Horseshit?” he asked 
avidly. She replied with a nod and added:

“Mostly. I was simply posted there when it went down.”

“So where did you learn to shoot like that?”

“You know, it does feel kind of liberating to talk about all this 
like we’re having a dinner party around Langley, but I’d have to 
say I’m not at liberty to discuss it.”

“So now what, you’re trying to be professional for a change? You 
could’ve killed me back there and I’d be still thinking the 
night’s just the thing. Your mission involved Andy?”

She raised an eyebrow at that and said nothing. Instead, she got 
up from the cot and said to Ethan, her hands in her pockets:

“I’m not at liberty to discuss that either.”

Ethan’s grin was replaced by a taut line over his pursed lips. He 
sat straight on his chair and said with a hint of vehemence:

“Horseshit. This isn’t about the job; any job. It’s about Andy. 
You said it might’ve been your fault he’s missing now. Was he 
part of the mission?”

She gripped her elbows as if a sudden chill had emptied her body 
of any warmth. She couldn’t hide the fact she felt uncomfortable. 
He told him then with some reticence:

“He.. He was my cover. The caravan, was my cover. I know, the 
irony?” she said raising a hand dismissively and went on: “But 
half the world knows the Red Cross is just another part of the 
deal. Andy thought he’d convinced me we were doing the right 
thing. In a way, I didn’t need much convincing.”

Ethan let out a long breath, and stared at Nicole for an 
uncomfortable, long moment. She didn’t seem eager to challenge 
his mood. At length, he asked her:

“What happened? I mean, what really happened?”

“It really was bandits. More like, the FPLB.”

“The what?”

“The Frontiere Populaire pour la Liberation de Biafra.”

“Secessionists?”

“Formerly. They’d been convinced to turn their interests in more 
lucrative affairs.”

“Running guns. Information. A little mercenary work.”

Ethan’s eyes trailed Nicole’s face. There was a strange glitter 
about them, an icy glow that rendered his gaze keen like a knife. 
He seemed to scrutinise her features one by one, when he finally 
said:

“You were their handler. The middleman.”

She stared blankly at the wall for a moment before bowing her 
head and sighing. She clasped her hands together and said softly, 
almost indelibly:

“Yes.”

“And Andy knew shit.”

She nodded with closed eyes. Ethan went for his pack of 
cigarettes, shaking his head furtively. She then cleared her 
throat and added very business-like:

“There’s more to it. The guns.”

“You mean the rifle and the Beretta?”

She nodded shallowly. Her face suddenly grew darker than the ill 
lamplight could account for:

“There’s more where that came from.”

“Sure. You’ve got connections, right? You must have had some form 
of backup.”

“There’s a small net. But that’s not where I got the guns.”

Ethan’s eyes became narrow at first. When the fear of realisation 
began to hit home, his eyes bulged even as he lit his cigarette. 
The tip of the cigarette grew glowing red-hot and he asked 
through a small fog of smoke:

“Not here.”

She nodded hesitantly before adding:

“That’s what Yuembe came for.”

Ethan’s face became flush suddenly, barely contained anger in his 
voice with just the slightest hint of worry:

“They’re still here then? The guns are still here. Fuckall!”

With a rather glum attempt at sounding sheepish, Nicole added 
flatly:

“We should get going. There might be more groups interested in 
the cache.”

Ethan grabbed his knapsack and cocked his Browning, before 
darting outside the door towards the Rover and saying rather 
furiously mostly to himself:

“What a fucking catch, Andy! What a brilliant fucking catch!”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

Ethan had driven for the better part of the night mostly in 
silence. What little words they had exchanged were about 
directions, miles, maps and compasses. He had tried to make their 
journey shorter, sometimes picking a dirt road or trail, and some 
times plowing through the savannah head on.

They’d seen pin-pricks of light in the distance blinking on and 
off in their path; the creatures of the night cleared a path in 
their wake. It was mostly hyenas they saw, as well as owls. Each 
time the hyenas saw the Rover’s headlights they paused in the 
feast of the carcass and gazed with eyes like gems; then they 
carried on, the instinct of fear quite outdone by hunger.

Ethan thought that had it been any other time their improvised 
journey through the plains and the hills of Nigeria might’ve been 
quite fascinating; a proper night safari, a peek at the pure, 
wild Africa, untouched by man. But that was just a passing idea; 
so much had happened in so little time, that Ethan found it at 
times difficult to focus on simply driving, his mind racing in 
all sorts of different directions. 

At some point he had felt the need to sleep but carried on for an 
hour or so as if his life dependent on it. Nicole had kept silent 
all along. She sometimes dozed off even as the Rover rocked and 
rumbled over crests and gutters, hilly sides and gravel trails. 
She didn’t seem to share the same fatigue as Ethan, who kept 
straightening himself up, breathing sharply in an effort to stay 
awake no matter what. At length, while on a small dirt road beset 
with tall savannah grass, she asked him:

“Let me drive.”

Ethan rolled his eyes before settling them on her face while his 
mouth widened slowly into a grin:

“I think not,” he said, and yawned.

“You’ll fall asleep on the wheel if you go on like this. You need 
to get some rest,” she said, looking worried. Ethan glanced at 
her sideways and kept driving, seemingly about to pass out in any 
moment. He shook his head drowsily without replying. Nicole 
insisted:

“Look, if you won’t let me drive at least pull over and get some 
sleep. For God’s sake.”

Ethan drew a deep breath and shook himself trying to stay alert. 
He told her then without taking his eyes off the road, his voice 
shallow, almost resigned:

“Fine. Remember, check your compass and clock; stick to the 
zigzag on the map and we should be fine. Give me one hour, then 
wake me up. Understood?”

Nicole’s eyes rolled ever so slightly; that had sounded like an 
order. She replied with a raised eyebrow with evident irritation:

“I understand you don’t trust me yet, and that’s clearly wrong 
because we’re doing this together whether you planned it, like it 
or not. It’s about Andy, remember?”

Ethan braked gently then and brought the rover to a stop. He 
closed his eyes and sat with fists clenched on the wheel, 
breathing shallowly. “I remember,” he said and went on looking at 
Nicole through bloodshot eyes:

“Just don’t bloody fuck this up. We need to reach the outskirts 
of Onitsha very much alive and completely unseen if at all 
possible. If you see or hear something just -”

“Look, I’m not a hapless bitch you can just work around, alright? 
Jesus, you think you’re so hot stuff don’t you? Please shut up, 
and sleep,” she said loudly but without screeching or yelling. 
Her somewhat pale face was flush with a red tint of anger, locks 
of her hair stuck on her temples. Ethan strangely thought about 
how menacingly beautiful she looked then.

He smiled thinly, nodded to himself and got out of the Rover as 
sharp as he could, straining himself to get to the co-driver’s 
seat as fast as possible. When they crossed each other in front 
of the Rover, they exchanged a strange look, and almost halted 
their stride for the barest second. A few moments later, Nicole 
was behind the wheel while Ethan lay in the seat next to her, 
arms crossed and legs drawn together, snoring like a hog.

They’d been carving a crisscross path towards Onitsha, the 
gateway to the Biafran territory east of the Niger. The small 
city had been swapping hands for the past few months between the 
federal government and the Biafrans. For the past couple of 
months, it lay in government hands, considered marginally safer. 
Still, the front-line was in an almost constant flux; units from 
both sides would occasionally try and force their passage over 
the Niger. It would come as no big surprise to Ethan if they 
suddenly encountered Biafran patrols instead of government 
troops.

As the hours went by, the savannah gave way to the lush 
riverside, full of mangroves and thick, green bush. The last of 
the starry sky shone its deep blue light. For a moment, it felt 
as if the rover was wading through a dream scape, the primal 
Africa of the spirit fathers and the blessed mother Earth. The 
illusion quickly melted away as the primrose red dawn cowardly 
crept over the horizon. Ethan sat upright startled, his arms 
still tightly hugging his chest. He glanced around sharply and 
asked Nicole:

“What time is it?”

She glanced at her wristwatch without taking her hands off the 
wheel and told him:

“It’s almost six in the morning. We should be there in about an 
hour.”

“What?” he said slightly miffed and took another look around him. 
He closed his eyes for a moment and looked at her viciously:

“You’re on the road. I told you, to stay off the road. What if-”

“What if we’re on the road? Wouldn’t it look even more strange if 
someone saw us just wading through the savannah like on a safari? 
For Pete’s sake, act like it.”

“Like what? A bloody fool?”

She stared blankly at the road and replied calmly with a vehement 
gaze:

“Like Andy’s brother. You’re all too tied up in playing the 
professional, while in fact you’re just winging this, aren’t you?”

Ethan let out a laugh of surprise despite himself. He was at a 
loss for words for a few moments, and Nicole went on:

“Maybe you’re too scared. You’d be an idiot if you weren’t, but 
at this rate..”

“So you’re the expert? Some kind of superhero? Does the CIA 
brainwash their own agents as well?”

Nicole shook her head and scoffed. She said with a flat, nearly 
emotionless voice:

“Maybe.”

Ethan did not answer. He was simply staring at her intently, as 
if searching for something on her face. She took notice and asked 
him:

“What now?”

Ethan rested his head on his hand and let out a sigh. He shrugged 
and told her:

“I’m just trying to see what Andy saw in you, that’s all.”

A smirk appeared on her face suddenly and she replied as if 
flustered:

“None of your business.”

“No, thank God not.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

“London Times?” asked the young lieutenant at the checkpoint. He 
was squinting under the bright morning sun, a pair of sunglasses 
tucked away neatly in his shirt pocket. Ethan replied 
nonchalantly:

“It’s a newspaper. Press?” he said, and showed off a battered, 
smudged, laminated press pass with his photo on it. The young 
lieutenant stared back for barely a moment before nodding to 
Nicole. He asked them:

“Red Cross nurse? All alone out here?”

“I’m doing a story arc. Ms. Heurgot here is the centerpiece, you 
see,” Ethan said and looked at her with a thin smile. She barely 
glanced back at the lieutenant with an uncertain smile, 
pretending to feel awkward. He shook his head and without a word, 
waved at the guard to raise a shoddy, rust-ridden metal bar. 
Ethan gave a mock salute and thanked him, while Nicole started 
the engine and drove off slowly towards the bridge.

After a few yards Ethan looked back through the mirror, and saw 
the lieutenant still shaking his head; he noticed a smile and 
then a few laughs from the guards. He was joking; that was good. 
That meant they thought they were probably crazy; which wasn’t 
that far off from reality. Nicole asked him then:

“They’re lax. It’s like they think it’s just another job.”

Ethan laid back in his seat and lit a smoke. He told her then as 
they crossed the bridge, the rover bucking slightly at each 
segment, his head lolling freely:

“Well, isn’t it?”

She spared a frowned a look lazily before replying and shifting 
gear:

“I like to think it’s a lot more. I’m a bit surprised you seem 
so..” She paused mid-sentence, her mouth half-open.

As the Rover reached the other side, a guard motioned them to 
stop. A soldier sitting inside a small shack that offered some 
relatively comfortable shadow was noting down their plates, 
cross-checking it against some sort of list. Nicole found the 
word she’d been searching for and said:

“Jaded.”

Ethan replied after a heavy draught:

“I thought you’d say cynical.”

“I would, if you were.”

“But I am.”

“No, you’re not. You care.”

“How do you know?”

“So you do?”

He smiled thinly and tapped away the ash from his cigarette over 
the open window. He shook his head and said with half a smile:

“Well played, I’ll give you that.”

“You think this is a game then?”

“Oh, do drive on.”

She smiled wearily and once the guard waved them on their way, 
she sped towards the center of the city through the main road. 
They both peered through open windows at the strange mix of 
people, land and buildings that seemed so impossibly jarring to 
the eye. Red brick walls looked inherently unable to hold even 
the smallest tin roof, while the people around them went about 
their morning business dressed in all sorts of colours from the 
drab gray shirt to the colourful rainbow woolen tunics.

Goats were being herded in pairs by the equivalent of a milkman, 
and quite a small crowd of mostly women and children seemed to be 
waiting in line expectantly. Small groups of soldiers seemed to 
be dispersed along the road, idly but warily overlooking the 
passers-by.

They were driving alongside the river, the east bank on their 
left. Little by little the rural outskirts gave way to more and 
more concrete, more and more colour. The town seemed relatively 
intact from the fighting, but the unmistakable signs were there: 
bullet-ridden blue and red walls, makeshift barricades and gun 
posts mingled with food stalls and workshops. The people seemed 
to take things in their stride. Whatever else, they still lived 
there.

They drove past the harbor and the piers where the military 
presence was more than evident: stores of supplies seemed to be 
piling up, while barges slowly waded through the Niger, loaded to 
the brim. Nearby, fishermen were preparing their nets as they did 
every day. Nicole broke the silence first:

“Isn’t it amazing?”

“What, exactly?”

“This town has been exchanging hands ever since the war started, 
and there are still people living here. Not only that, they’re 
going about their business like nothing’s changed.”

Ethan snorted almost derisively, and with his gaze fixed on the 
golden reflections of the sun on the river, he replied:

“Well, what would you know. A spy with a conscience.”

She looked at him with a knowing smile, while they drove past a 
small square that had been reduced to patches of brush and wild 
grass. She retorted:

“Does it surprise you?”

“It surprises me you can afford one.”

“I’d have no meaning if I wasn’t doing this for a reason.”

“It doesn’t really have much of a meaning. And there’s millions 
of reasons, but try as you might, there’s no meaning.”

“So, everything is meaningless, so we should just do nothing 
about everything? Maybe jump off a cliff as well.”

“No, I’m not saying that we shouldn’t do nothing. I’m only saying 
it doesn’t really mean anything. It only means what anyone wants 
it to mean.”

“There’s only as much value in the war as we want it to have?”

“Not just this one here. Every war.”

“What about the people who were driven out of their homes, those 
who were shot because they were thought to be sympathizers? What 
about the orphans and the starving children? What value do these 
people have?”

“To me?”

“Why does it have to be about you all the time?”

“Well, you’re asking me.”

“I can’t understand how a man like yourself is after Andy.”

“I can’t understand how someone as daft as you works for the CIA.”

“So I’m a fool, just because I believe people have the right to 
live decent lives? The fishermen down the river are fools for 
trying as well? For not giving up?”

“No, they’re fishermen. Smart trade; they cast a net and fill it 
with fish. No need to herd anything, and milk and sheer it. No 
need to sow, till and water. No, they just reap what the river 
has on offer. Smart folk, fishermen.”

“These are the last few people who are brave enough to keep 
living in a war zone.”

“And go where exactly? Wait for the Red Cross to feed them? The 
UN to free them? From who? You don’t understand, I guess you 
yanks never did. The river is all that matters to these people. 
Without it, there’s no life. Like they care who’s running this 
charade. You should get out more, take a walk. Get down from that 
high horse of yours.”

“You’re making things sound so fucking simple while in fact you 
don’t have the slightest clue about what’s at stake here. What’s 
at stake in Vietnam, the six day war, Angola. It’s fucking 
everywhere and you’re acting like it’s pointless.”

“It all depends on your point of view, that’s all. To them, it 
is. To you, maybe it isn’t.”

“And what about you? Do you care about all this, or do you just 
pull a trigger when you’re told to?”

“Don’t you?”

“When I have to. Not when I’m told to.”

“What if you’re told you have to?”

“Faith. I trust in faith.”

“You know, I really can’t tell when you’re trying to bullshit me, 
or just yourself. You people have some real issues. At least I 
know what’s wrong with me, you just live in a hazy world between 
reality and fantasy where everything’s possible, including saving 
the world by bombing it to hell. I didn’t think I’d be grateful 
for all the nightmares.”

“So you do have a conscience in the end?”

“Only I’m not proud about it. It doesn’t really help, you know. I 
consider it a luxury.”

“You should. Because you’re one cynical bastard if I ever saw 
one.”

“I can’t wait to have this kind of conversation over Christmas 
dinner.”

“I bet you’re adopted.”

“I’d wish.”

She braked abruptly and pulled over in front of a small 
three-story building with faux gypsum columns outside, cast in 
some vaguely Greco-Roman rhythm. Bullets had found their way 
through the gypsum and into the concrete, while flecks of chipped 
paint riddled the wide doors.

“We’re here,” said Nicole and stopped the engine.

Ethan replied with a yawn:

“I hope there’s a real bed.”

“I hope they have two rooms.”

“I wouldn’t worry about the vacancies.”

A man that appeared to be the hotel manager stepped through the 
doorway, dressed in a white linen shirt, smart black trousers and 
matching shoes, around his forties, tall, thin, almost gaunt. He 
smiled rather widely, a few nickel-cases showing. He bowed 
slightly before adding:

“Welcome to Olowo Hotel. Luggage?”

Ethan smiled and nodded towards Nicole, saying:

“Certainly, her.”

The hotel manager looked puzzled for a moment, then let out a 
polite little laugh, and ushered them inside.

“Coffee, or tea?” he said, and extended a hand to a couple of 
tables and a small bar.

“No, thank you,” said Nicole, and Ethan shook his head. He told 
him then:

“We need two rooms.”

The manager was already shuffling through the guestbook when he 
asked somewhat confused:

“You mean a double?”

Nicole sniggered behind Ethan, while he spoke slowly and surely, 
as if to a child, stressing each word:

“Two separate rooms with a single bed.”

The manager looked apprehensively at both of them for a moment, 
and then smiled assuredly.

“Certainly, sir, madam. Cash up front, please. Hotel policy. Five 
hundred,” he said, nodding to both of them. Ethan raised a brow 
but nevertheless pulled five hundred’s bills and paid. “Thank 
you. We’re happy to have you staying. Please, follow me,” the 
manager said and led them to the first floor, to their rooms. 
Each one a miniscule affair with a water basin and remarkably a 
proper bed. There was a common toilet at the end of the hallway. 
The manager then said with almost unbridled pride:

“There are separate facilities for the ladies!”

“Fantastic. I wouldn’t want to bump into her,” Ethan said smiling 
ironically while Nicole seemed to ignore him.

The manager looked at them both once more fleetingly, opened his 
mouth to ask something but thought better of it and said nothing. 
He then straightened himself and said in business-like tones:

“Well, there is more press staying here. I hope you’ll enjoy your 
stay, even under the circumstances.”

“You mean the war?”

“The war will end some day, sir. But the mosquitoes, they never 
go out of fashion! The river, you see.”

Ethan grinned and nodded, shook his head and looked at Nicole who 
simply shrugged.

“Thank you very much,” Ethan said, while Nicole stared outside 
the hallway window onto the street below. The manager bowed again 
before adding:

“Ring the bell if you need me. I’ll be downstairs!”

Nicole asked Ethan without turning her gaze away from the street:

“You think everyone else down there thinks the same?”

“Does it matter?”

“I forgot, nothing really does.”

“I need to sleep.”

She nodded, and shut the door behind her. Soon, she could hear 
Ethan snoring from across the hallway.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

He woke up with a mild headache. There was still light pouring in 
from the small window. He felt his body ache from all the 
exertion the night before. He checked his wristwatch; it was 
almost four in the afternoon.

He vaguely remembered seeing a strange dream. The one thing he 
was certain about was that the dream hadn’t been a nightmare. 
Curiously enough he remembered it had something to do with James. 
He itched in various places; he scratched reflexively and noticed 
the bites: mosquitoes. He washed his face and scrubbed some of 
the muck and dirt away, feeling a bit freshened and somewhat 
cleaner. He put on his clothes and tied his shoes with the usual 
haste of a professional soldier.

He picked up his key and his camera along with the press card, 
and closed the door behind him. He went over to Nicole’s room and 
knocked, but she didn’t reply. He knocked again but didn’t shout; 
she might be still sleeping he thought, and went down the stairs.

The hotel manager was serving coffee to some clients that looked 
quite foreign, blond-haired and red-faced. Evidently he was the 
sole proprietor, manager, and waiter. Probably no-one else worked 
here anymore. He had simply, like others in the city, decided to 
stay, despite the war. Curiously enough, there was still money to 
be made even at a time and place such as this one. The manager 
took notice of him and waved from the table he was serving. He 
told him with a smile:

“Letter for you Mr. Owls, from Ms. Heurgot. A moment.”

Ethan nodded and smiled thinly, thinking it strange Nicole had 
already left without waking him up. He noticed the foreigners, a 
man and a woman, looked at him vaguely but quickly resumed 
sipping their coffee silently. The hotel manager went behind his 
flimsy-looking counter and unlocking a small cabinet, gave Ethan 
a small envelope. Ethan was about to ask for an opener, when the 
manager promptly offered a simple kitchen knife which did the job 
just as well.

There was a small note inside the envelope; Nicole had to get in 
touch with a certain valuable contact of hers. She had written 
down a list of people and places where he should start asking 
questions. He immediately felt shut out, as if running errands on 
her behalf. Maybe it was less time consuming that way, or maybe 
she had other, work-related priorities. The Agency. What kind of 
operation where the Yanks really running down here? He had little 
idea about how these things worked. He decided he’d ask her some 
real hard questions about all this business when they met later 
that night at a shady place called ’Queen Madimba’. Until then, 
he had to make a call.

“Is there some place I can make a call in private?”

The manager rolled his eyes for a moment, then said with slight 
apprehension:

“For you, it is probably possible. You’d need to get over to 
Victoria Square, talk to whoever’s in charge there. All landlines 
go through the military, you see.”

Ethan nodded and smiled, before adding:

“I would know my way around. Is there a map I could use? I 
wouldn’t want to end up in a minefield or something now, would I?”
 he said and smiled, while the manager found the joke lacking and 
simply gave Ethan a shoddy, trodden piece of paper that was a 
rough drawing of the relative locations of the hotel, the river, 
the city center and the harbor.

“Victoria Square is in the city center. Ask around if you need 
anything else. And I would like that back when you’re done,” said 
the hotel manager before adding:

“I lost my wife to a mine, only last year. It is no laughing 
matter.”

“Certainly. I was just.. Right, thank you,” Ethan said and walked 
out onto the street, which was mostly empty. Apart from the heat 
and the nearly debilitating moisture in the air, there was little 
to do other than peddle foodstuffs and alcohol to passing troops 
and patrols, either on or off duty. Kids would invariably pop in 
and out of sight, some playing catch or football, others trying 
to sell something they’d fished in the river.

The town seemed subdued; poor, but still living. Hurt, but not 
destroyed. His walk took him through a few streets he could 
barely recognise. Some of those were in his list, others were in 
fact nothing more than alleys or dirt paths. He decided to grab a 
bite at a stall selling fried fish.

While he ate, he noticed the peculiar silence. This was a city at 
war, in the front lines, but nothing other than the presence of 
the military reminded him of that. There was no shelling, no 
gunfire, no sound of engines revving up and armor clamoring by. A 
city under siege, without walls or trenches, nothing but the 
river as a moat. It seemed like nothing would ever force the 
people to abandon it, except perhaps the river drying up.

He felt full after the first fish and drank a couple mouthfuls of 
beer. It felt like home for the barest moment: lukewarm and 
tasteless, just like the water in this town.

He then made his way straight to Victoria square where he could 
see a lot more soldiers, jeeps and trucks. It looked like every 
other building around the square had been taken over as barracks, 
storage or command center. The congregation of so many soldiers 
in one place looked like a staging area. Perhaps some kind of 
operation was about to begin.

As he approached a small tent near a guard post, a soldier 
shouted at him something in Yoruba, without bothering to aim his 
rifle at him. Ethan held both hands high, one of them holding the 
press pass. The soldier squinted at it, and called one of his 
superiors, a sergeant by the looks of his stripes. The sergeant 
looked at Ethan with puzzled disbelief:

“Reporter man?”

Ethan nodded and said:

“Richard Owls, London Times. I could gladly use a phone.”

“A telephone?”

The sergeant said something to the soldier and they broke down in 
laughter. Despite the complete lack of courtesy, the sergeant 
pointed at the small tent and said:

“Try the Captain,” and resumed what must have been a keen joke 
between himself and the guard on duty.

Ethan approached the tent were a rather small man with the 
insignia of a Captain was studying maps and a few sheets of 
reports, sitting down in a fold-up garden chair. On the small 
table, his service revolver lay in pieces, ready to be cleaned. 
Ethan cleared his throat and announced himself:

“Captain? Richard Owls, London Times. I’m sorry to bother you, 
but I do need to phone my office.”

The Captain looked up from his work briefly and barely 
registering Richard he pointed to a hand-crank magnetic phone. He 
told him then:

“Ask for Operations. Tell them to connect you to an outside 
operator and give him the number.”

“Right, thank you. Terribly sorry, really. I hadn’t expected this 
kind of lock-down.”

“Makes you wish you hadn’t left the office, doesn’t it?”

The captain smiled broadly, and Ethan replied with a nod. He 
asked for the operator and after giving the number, there was a 
small pause, and then some more silence before the silky voice of 
a woman came on the phone:

“Who would you like to speak to?”

Ethan hesitated for a moment before asking the captain:

“Captain, would you mind? It’s a sensitive call.”

“It’s my phone. I do mind. Get on with it or hang up, I don’t 
care.”

Ethan nodded, and having no other option went ahead:

“Ian Ruthers, please. Tell him it’s from the Nigerian desk.”

The voice on the other end sounded puzzled:

“Sir, do you know were it is you are calling?”

“I bloody know very well, get me Ruthers, just mention my name 
Richard Owls. And I’ll hold.”

There were a few moments of silence and then some hiss and the 
sound of lines mingling and connecting. Finally, after almost 
half a minute Ian could be heard on the other side:

“Have you lost your mind? Calling from half-way around the world 
on an insecure line! What do you think this is, Whitehall?”

“I’m in a tent, borrowing a phone from a Nigerian captain. 
Listen, I need you to run a check. Nicole Heurgot, says she works 
for Virginia.”

“What the hell, Ethan? What’s with her? You don’t mean Langley, 
Virginia.”

“The one and the same. Listen, just let me know when you find 
out. A yes or no will do.”

“I guess I’ll have something by tomorrow night. Listen on the 
BBC. Tomorrow at 10. God, the paperwork you’re putting me through 
alone could kill me.

“Right.. How will I..?”

“Right, well. Off the top of my head, and I’m not saying we do 
this all the time, we’ll use the `Top of the Pops’ opening song. 
I know you hate the Beatles, so.. `Hey Jude’ seems fitting. 
Remember, opening song. And Ethan, I don’t know why exactly 
you’re asking this but it doesn’t sound good at all.”

“I know. I just hope I’m wrong.”

Dead men can’t dance

The old man drained the last of the beer off the keg, and brought 
the bottle to Ethan’s small table. There was some beer foam right 
at the mouth of the bottle, which the old man blew away with a 
wheezy puff, before settling it down on the table. He then looked 
at Ethan with wide, almost hazy, glassy eyes and said:

“He can smell you are trouble.”

Ethan shook his head and his stilted smile had the look of 
tasting salt about it. He drank another gulp of beer and asked 
the old man, “I didn’t know trouble has a smell of its own,” 
trying to sound nonchalant, unconvincingly enough.

“It doesn’t. It’s the smell of shit!” blared the owner with an 
almost accusing stare and suddenly broke down in laughter. The 
other two men followed suit, showing off hollowed out mouths and 
wrinkled, leathery faces worn through a life-time of being used 
to hardships of all kinds.

“And you’re full of it, Englishman. Who dem asking for trouble, 
days like these, but dem trouble, no?” said one of the two, while 
the owner chimed in himself again, “You can’t hide a pile of shit 
if you paint it gold, mister. It still smells, so do you. Your 
man, whoever he is, won’t be coming. Hope he didn’t take your 
money first.”

Ethan couldn’t manage a reply. Taken by surprise by their 
straightforward manner, he barely managed a grin while acceding 
to having being played like a fool:

“He did. I’m that transparent, am I?” he said, while all three 
men smiled and nodded. The one who hadn’t even spoken a word said 
then, “You dem English” smiled, shrugged and sipped his beer. The 
owner was sitting behind his counter, and tapping his hand with 
each word he said to Ethan, “What’s a white man doing in the 
middle of a war?” and added with a rather grim face, “It can’t be 
fishing now.”

Ethan took the hint, nodded almost reverentially, drank another 
gulp of beer, left another five pounder on the table and got up. 
As he stepped outside the door, he began to realise there was a 
lot more to what the old man had just said.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

The rest of the leads proved to be dead ends as well; they all 
talked about a red cross caravan, and they had all heard about 
the attack. But nothing solid, nothing first hand. Those few 
shady people that made a living trading all sorts of information 
had either been laying too low to be found or had simply refused 
to deal; one of them had just left saying the whole thing was too 
hot. In any case, all the useful info about Andy boiled down to 
that he was indeed missing.

Soldiers on jeeps and foot patrols made their presence felt 
around the town while Ethan moved about; they asked him for his 
papers on more than one occasion. They had lists with names and 
photos, actively looking for people that the Nigerian government 
had one way or the other decided had been acting against their 
best interest: Soldiers of fortune, spies, people who made it 
their business to know all kinds of dangerous, possibly 
profitable things.

An English journalist casually roaming about Onitsha and asking 
people questions then could be all three things if his name or 
photo was on that list. It was a crude thing to do, using 
soldiers for field intelligence work, but then again he himself 
was running on pure luck and whatever ropes James was pulling. 
His cover was extremely thin, but he had no other option; it was 
only a matter of time before someone would notice he was nowhere 
to be found, and still he had nothing solid on Andy. At least, he 
thought to himself, they hadn’t found a body yet.

The evening breeze brought the smell of river life to Ethan as he 
walked past a checkpoint under an old, Anglican church. He stood 
there for a moment or so with real, keen interest as its small 
congregation poured outside, shuffling their feet with purpose: 
it would be curfew time soon. True enough, the church bell 
started to ring, forcing Ethan to look at his watch: half past 
seven. He would run a bit late for his meeting with Nicole.

He nodded with an uncertain smile at the soldiers motioning him 
to get off the street and hastily took off towards the river 
bank, quickly disappearing in the flimsy shade of a small shop 
alley. He could hear movement and shouts behind him; the military 
police was hurrying people out of the streets and into their 
houses.

At the end of the alley he ventured a quick look behind him. 
Nothing. As he crossed an empty street, he noticed it was the 
same in every direction he gazed at: The natural denizens of city 
streets, dogs and cats alike, could barely be seen hiding away 
under alcoves, small balconies and porches. Pigeons and swallows 
were trudging along stained rooftops lazily, and even rats seemed 
attuned to the curfew, fleeing purposefully back into their 
shadowy nests wherever there were people left to harrow.

Then he noticed more movement near the river bank, jeeps and 
trucks moving along the length, while all the while tugboats 
putted away upstream. With a fleeting look he noticed a patrol 
coming his way. Across the street, he finally saw a sign that 
read “Madimba”. He crossed the empty road with a casual walking 
pace, and pushed the door open. A flight of steps lead downward 
into a dimly lit cellar, hushed conversations and the faint but 
unmistakable sound of brass; jazz.

He closed the door behind him and carefully tread down the narrow 
steps. He then looked around, taking in the whole setting of the 
underground bar. It was elegantly decorated but crudely 
furnished; crammed but somehow everyone seemed comfortably 
seated. The smell of sweat and smoke weighed heavy.

It was a small wonder that a place like that could be found 
hidden away amidst the forefront of a war, but there was an 
explanation for that as well; it was packed with foreigners. 
Europeans from the look and sound of them, almost down to the 
last one.

He then saw Nicole silently waving him over to a table near one 
corner of the establishment; a tall, lank black man was sitting 
beside her. After wading through tightly packed tables and 
customers, he pulled up the single empty chair and sat, 
addressing Nicole:

“Who is this?”

“This is Adu, Adu Nebdele. He’s going to help us get to Owerri.”

“First of all, I don’t like the fact we didn’t talk this over 
first. Why Owerri?”

Adu then spoke out of turn, just when Nicole was about to talk 
and bluntly said with a cultivated accent:

“I think your brother’s dead.”

“Who is this again?” said Ethan without even turning to 
acknowledge the man’s existence. Nicole replied with a calming 
voice, “I’ve known this man far longer than you, Ethan. You can 
trust him, he’s been more than useful in the past.”

Ethan shook his head and sagged back on his chair. He flicked his 
gaze between Nicole and Adu, and said with a sickly grin:

“Can I now? What makes him such an expert on dead people?”

Nicole’s face flashed red with slow-boiled anger and her piercing 
eyes met Ethan’s with a decisive clash. Neither of them seemed 
willing to look away. Adu then drew himself closer to Ethan and 
said in a low-keyed voice, trying to sound condescending:

“I have a brother-in-law, works in the morgue. There’s been lot 
of work lately.”

Ethan spared a vehement look in Adu’s direction that only seemed 
to stick for a moment or two. He then lowered his gaze and said 
after sighing:

“I need a drink.”

Adu nodded and asked him casually:

“Scotch?”

“I thought there was a war going on,” replied Ethan, a mocking 
expression on his face.

“Not if you’re a white Englishman with pounds to spare. Anything 
particular?” asked Adu to which Ethan answered along with a wave 
of his hand, “I wouldn’t go that far. Anything other than rye 
would be good.”

Adu smiled thinly, nodded and got up. As he slowly made his way 
through the crowded tables towards the bar at the other end, 
Ethan told Nicole with ire in his voice:

“I don’t appreciate this. Who the hell is that?”

“He’s an associate. A valuable associate. Has been for the past 
three years. If you can’t trust him, you can’t trust me, and that 
would be a damn shame because I want us to find Andy. Alive. 
Maybe you’re having second thoughts about this,” said Nicole, 
nursing a barely touched glass of wine. Ethan almost erupted into 
a drowned out shout:

“Now hold on a minute! The last thing I need right now is some 
sort of lecture from the wife and all sorts of Agency bullshit!”

Nicole’s face had a serious, business-like look when she said, “
Adu is a very well connected man. He keeps an uneasy balance 
between the two sides. I’ve been going in and out thanks to him 
ever since I’ve been operating here.”

“Which brings us to the question, what exactly are you working on 
here? And why did you drag Andy into this mess?”

“Listen, I really wish I hadn’t but that was his choice. It 
really was. I thought it would be relatively safe. That was my 
mistake. Now, about the job..”

She let her voice trail off while the jazz filled the next few 
silent moments. Ethan shook his head and said through a tight, 
forced smile:

“Bloody right. A mistake. But not the last one.”

Their gazes remained locked like lovers in a quarrel; neither one 
seemed willing to let go, as if in a staring contest. Instead of 
passion though, there was brewing anger. When Adu returned with 
Ethan’s drink though, they looked away as if somehow slightly 
embarrassed.

“Thanks,” said Ethan with barely audible mutter, while Nicole 
silently sipped at her own glass of wine. Adu then told Ethan in 
a matter-of-fact way:

“I can imagine you might be upset about this, but it’s good, 
solid information. Caucasian, English passport.”

“I’ll wait and see with my own two eyes,” Ethan replied and then 
said to Nicole accusingly, striking his finger at the table, “
I’ve been running in circles all day, and you simply ask your man 
and it’s a done deal? Andy’s dead?”

The jazz song playing in the background reached a crescendo, sax 
and trumpets blaring with a virtuoso’s tenacity, easily drowning 
out the mingled, hushed voices all around the ’Madimba’. Nicole 
looked at Ethan with watery eyes and said, “Andy’s not dead. I 
believe he is not dead. But we have to know, don’t we? To keep 
looking, we have to know.”

Ethan drank a mouthful of the scotch. It made him flinch, his 
face sour. He nodded and said flatly:

“True enough. Besides, Owerri was down the road anyway. When do 
we leave?”

Nicole shrugged and said, “We can’t leave tonight, not with the 
curfew in place. Tomorrow at dawn, at the earliest.”

“So what does that mean, we’re stuck here for the night as well?” 
said Ethan indignantly.

Adu’s mouth widened into a knowing smile, showing an impressively 
bright set of teeth before he said:

“There’s a small room with a cot on the top floor were you can 
spend the night. A guesthouse, if you like. Besides, the curfew 
isn’t all that it’s cracked up to be if you’re white and willing 
to spend money.”

“We could just bribe the MPs then? That simple?”

“If you find anyone sober. Things have been quiet for too long 
around here. They feel settled, at ease. There’s no fighting 
right now. Regrouping, they call it.”

“But still..”

“Everyone needs to unwind. War is a tiresome affair, no? I’d 
thought you would know.”

Ethan laughed despite himself and downed the rest of his scotch.

“Is this why this place is full of foreigners? No-one really 
bothers with the curfew? Because the scotch it serves is barely 
three years old. All it’s good for is a pissing.”

Adu nodded with a thin smile on his lips, and added:

“That’s about right. Only it really is rye.”

“Rye?”

“Old family recipe. There’s a war going on, remember?”

Ethan didn’t laugh at that last remark, despite Adu’s brilliant 
smile. He looked at his emptied glass and asked Adu then with 
some puzzlement:

“Family recipe, you said? This place yours, then? This is what 
you do, sell drinks and work with the CIA?”

Adu knit his hands together and smiled, while Nicole sipped at 
her drink languidly, staring at Ethan. Adu answered with a 
careful, concise tone:

“Among other things. Whatever the reason, we’re here, and there 
are opportunities all around. It’s a terrible thing, to waste an 
opportunity.”

“I don’t really like you. Or your kind.”

“You mean businessmen?”

“No. Warmongers.”

Nicole closed her eyes and said calmly:

“Ethan, please. No need for name-calling.”

Adu smiled thinly before calmly retorting:

“This isn’t about money, or profit. This is about survival. I 
could just as well imply that the British government is doing the 
same, trying to hold on to the oil contracts.”

“We didn’t start this war, you know.”

“But there’s only one outcome that suits you.”

“That’s politics.”

“So they are politicians, but I’m a warmonger? It doesn’t seem 
fair.”

“I think as much, only from a different point of view.”

“But do you really understand why I have to do all this? Stand in 
the middle, play all sides, balance things?”

“You’re trying to tell me, you have no other option?”

“Precisely. Someone has to be the voice of reason in a very 
unreasonable affair,” he said and grinned before adding with a 
shrug, “..war.”

“I thought you were just selling info this way and that according 
to what suits the CIA.”

“Or maybe what suits me. Even I can’t tell sometimes,” Adu said 
with a grin and looked at Nicole sideways for a moment. When she 
stared back he went on and added:

“You know where to look. My job is done.”

Nicole shot him a fiery look and told him with icy deliberation:

“That’s not what we agreed upon.”

“It’s not too late to reach another agreement. Perhaps it would 
be much more fair if Mr. Whittmore had a say in this.”

“How much?” blurted Nicole with a flustered face, while Ethan 
frowned and asked rather dully:

“How much about what, exactly?”

“Triple the usual,” said Adu casually, casting a fleeting gaze at 
Ethan who repeated his question, this time a lot more 
convincingly:

“The fuck what for?”

“Keeping his mouth shut,” Nicole said briskly. Adu replied with a 
annoying grin on his mouth:

“Indeed. That would be very bad for both of you, wouldn’t it? In 
more than one way. Isn’t that right, Ms. Heurgot?”

“I thought you said you could trust this man.”

“Trust is a rare commodity these days. The price, and the client, 
are.. Flexible,” said Adu with a sharp, shiny grin.

Ethan locked eyes with Adu. He had a look of calm determination 
about him, eyes glinting in the dim light of the oil lamp. The 
black man’s grin turned into a thin line and a deep frown 
appeared on his face when without warning Ethan reached for his 
ankle and pulled his combat knife with one superbly fluid motion.

Nicole’s eyes widened with shock while Adu’s hands were already 
upending the table. She only had time enough to cry “Wait!” but 
Ethan was already off his chair, trying to sidestep the table. He 
went for Adu’s arm with a quick jab with the knife, but he missed 
for an inch or so. The upturned table hadn’t slowed him down, and 
he was right behind Adu who was already thrusting people aside, 
edging his way towards the bar.

The sudden commotion made people turn their heads in a snap. 
Nicole jumped off her chair and tried to grab Ethan by the waist. 
Her initial surprise had made her slow to act and she missed him 
by a few inches, grasping nothing but air.

Within moments, Adu had cleared his way through the tables, 
smashing glasses and brushing aside stunned customers. Ethan was 
only a few steps behind, his knife in hand. A quick nod and a 
moment later, the bartender was leaning behind the counter. When 
saw the movement he instinctively rushed towards the ground in an 
audacious tackle. Their feet connected; Adu tripped and suddenly 
fell sideways at the exact moment when a small cloud of wooden 
splinters, smashed tiles and pieces of cloth flew right above 
Ethan’s head. The booming sound of a shotgun echoed like 
thunderclap around the small bar; mayhem ensued.

Shouts and cries mingled with the sudden rush of screeching 
tables and chairs as the panicked customers fled the ’Madimba’. 
Clicking metallic sounds alerted Ethan that the shotgun was being 
reloaded, even as Adu had rolled on his back and turned around to 
jump on Ethan.

With his sudden rush he had managed to pin Ethan’s knife hand, 
but his grip was lax, his body badly placed, vulnerable. Ethan 
managed to swing a punch right in Adu’s face with his free hand; 
it barely shook him. A couple more quick jabs had little effect 
other than Adu replying with a fist right in Ethan’s stomach, 
grunting instinctively as he flexed his muscles.

Ethan tried to get a hold on Adu with his legs, catch him in a 
vice. He couldn’t get a good grip, as Adu was piled up more 
pressure on his knife hand, trying to wrestle the knife away. His 
other hand went for Ethan’s neck and met with opposition. While 
they grappled on the floor, Ethan heard a loud shot without 
warning, then another and one more, all in quick succession.

The crowd rushing outside reacted to the shots with a louder 
burst of bewildered, panicked shouts. They were still shouting 
when he heard the thud of a body falling limp against the floor, 
the sound of smashed glass following its way down.

They were both surprised and for an instant Adu’s attention waned 
as he shot a reflexive look behind him, where the bartender 
should have been holding the shotgun. In that single moment his 
grip became just a tad more lax and allowed Ethan to slip his 
knife hand away with a sudden, violent shove.

Losing the grip on the knife hand, Adu tried to roll over on the 
floor, put some space between them. He tried to put his back 
against the bar, while he reached for someplace out of Ethan’s 
sight. While he swung his body around, trying to catch Adu from 
an ankle or a leg, he saw Adu’s face suddenly go slack, all the 
tension vanishing in an instant. His hand stayed for the merest 
moment still in the air, and then another shot was heard.

This time he saw Adu’s whole body flex, quiver and shudder all in 
the blink of an eye before it fell limp against the bottom of the 
bar. Blood trailed down from the hole in his shaven head, now 
grossly disfigured, the cracked skull penetrating the skin. 
Nicole’s shouts reawakened Ethan who stood there transfixed for 
the merest second, mesmerized from the puzzled look in Adu’s 
eyes:

“Go! We have to run, now!”

Ethan stood up, sheathed his knife and ran towards the stairs 
right behind Nicole. He told her then, out of breath:

“Why, did you shoot him dead? I had him.”

“What an idiot! He was reaching for a gun.”

“I didn’t see any gun,” Ethan said when he stepped outside. He 
could see a few of the customers shouting for any patrol to come 
to their help. From the corner of his eye he could see some 
pointing at him. Nicole dragged him along behind one of the walls 
of ’Madimba’ and told him in a very strong manner, evidently 
quite upset:

“You can thank me later, you dolt! What kind of an asshole jumps 
on an informant like that? Without provocation as well!”

“Without.. He was bloody going to tell on us! Who knows whom to! 
I was protecting us! You!”

“Jesus! Just.. Fuck!”

“Listen, I think we need to make ourselves scarce. We’ve got to 
leave now, tonight.”

“Oh, you think?”

Shouts and the sound of boots and clattering helmets came from 
the street behind them. Some of the customers were talking wildly 
in accented English and French, while an authoritative voice 
wanted them to shut up.

“They’re trying to explain the shots and all. We can’t go back to 
the hotel right now,” said Ethan, licking his lips from his 
sweat.

“Any brighter ideas, then?”

“The river. Let’s try the river.”

“The river’s crawling with soldiers!”

“It’s full of water as well! We’ll get on a boat, or lay low 
someplace until things die down.”

“Die down? Are you- never mind, no time to argue. Go!” she said 
as the patrol leader shouted orders to his men, still trying to 
gleam an understanding from the terrified white folk.

They both ran towards the river bank, trying to use alleys and 
shadowy paths through the irregular maze of Onitsha’s 
neighborhoods. Behind them, they could hear echoes of bellowing 
officers and the muffled sound of boots running. At each corner 
they would stop for a breath, then silently nod and keep going 
with the same pace. Anxious glances revealed wary eyes from the 
city folk peeking behind smudged windows and decrepit walls. They 
kept running and before long the empty streets gave way to a 
wild, lush vegetation.

Dusk had already fallen, and with the riverside in plain view, 
they laid low near a thick bush. Nicole was out of breath, her 
muscles burning from the effort. She bent over and weighed 
herself on her knees with sagged shoulders. Ethan knelt beside 
her and surveyed the river bank for a moment. She said then with 
pain written on her face:

“That’s it. I’m beat,” and a short breath later added, “Can’t go 
on like this.”

Ethan replied with a nod, quite unaffected by the physical 
strain:

“Right. I wasn’t thinking about running all the way to Owerri 
anyway.”

Nicole laid down on her back and found in her just a breath of 
laughter before she replied, still grimacing from the exhaustion:

“Should’ve thought about that before.”

“Your valuable associate,” Ethan said icily, “was going to sell 
us out.”

“What the fuck do you know, anyway?” came Nicole’s sharp, almost 
vicious answer, before she added with a sigh, “Real smart. 
Brilliant.”

“I know we need transportation,” said Ethan dryly, staring at the 
Niger’s steady, gentle flow. A moment later he added with a 
vehement grin, “Do you have any brilliant ideas you’d like to 
share?”

Nicole shot him a weird look, her eyes all lit up. She suddenly 
sprung back on her feet, and said “Actually,” and then added as 
if it was her God-given right to do so, “I really do.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

The small river barge was dominated by a rather large stack of 
barrels and crates. Some had been spray painted with numbers and 
letters in the same pattern, while others were completely devoid 
of any markings. Most seemed battered and frayed, while few 
seemed brand new. As the last light of the day fell around them, 
it cast a blurred, murky reflection of the uneven heap on the 
water rolling lazily past the flimsy, almost flat hull. 

“You see,” said the Swede scratching his reddened beard as if 
deeply ponderous, “you have to have a.. How do you say that?”

“Perspective?”, asked Ethan and drew on his cigarette. The sound 
of crickets and buzzing mosquitoes were drowned by the monotonous 
`put-put’ of the two-stroke motor that somehow managed to barely 
propel the barge.

The Swede replied with a smile that took a moment or two to form 
on his sun-burnt face. He then added as he peeked behind Ethan at 
the helmsman, a boy in his teens:

“Perspective. See, Muembe there lacks perspective. He just wants 
to feed his family. Never asks a thing.”

“I don’t think he’d been working for you if he did.”

“Well, of course not. If anyone did, I’d be out of business,” he 
said turning back to face Ethan with a thin, gentle smile on his 
face. Ethan nodded and said nothing. His gaze wondered for a 
moment before it fell on the cargo. He asked then the Swede:

“And you just run up and down the river like that? No questions 
asked by anyone?”

“Sometimes, some do. But I can be very persuasive. Plus, the 
Nigerian Navy is more or less, a common joke around these parts,” 
he said and shook his head wildly.

Ethan drew on his cigarette slowly and said, “You’re saying this 
is easy? Is that why you don’t even bother with a canvas or some 
camouflage?”

“A canvas would draw even more attention. If I do meet a boat on 
the river, then they’ll probably think I’m just running a 
shipment for the Army. The river is so plentiful, see? Fishermen 
fish, and I haul,” the Swede replied, waving his arms about.

“How much does this pay then?” asked Ethan with a frown on his 
brow.

“Are you looking to get into the business? Because I’d hate the 
competition,” replied the burly man, laughing heartily to 
himself.

“Not really, no. I’m kind of into the business myself, but I’m 
not a middleman.”

“Ah. Mercenary then?” he asked with a smile.

“Slightly different. Though I can’t be sure there’s a real 
difference,” replied Ethan with a somewhat weary look.

“Royal Marine!” the Swede exclaimed, pointing wildly with a 
finger.

“For God’s sake, is it that bloody obvious?” asked Ethan slightly 
irritated. The swede leaned toward him and said, nodding with his 
head once so often:

“The knife. You seem calm but your body is tense. You keep an eye 
all the time. One hand on the cigarette, one near the knife. Edgy 
but cool. Not regular British army. I can tell. They are-”

Nicole then appeared from the small galley below and said in a 
flat, tired voice, “He’s full of shit. I told him who you are,” 
and then she sat down on the deck, crossing her legs before 
adding “Must be going bored out of his mind.”

“I’m just trying to make your friend here feel at ease,” the 
Swede said throwing his hands in the air, acting the insulted 
part. Ethan drew a last whiff and threw his cigarette in the 
water before asking with smoke coming out of his mouth and nose:

“We could have come straight to this guy, why did we-”

Nicole interjected with a suddenly conversational tone:

“We needed to check with Adu first. We didn’t know whether the 
Swede would even have a delivery today. See, Adu and the Swede 
are partners, so to speak,” she said with a gleaming smile and 
fluttered her eyes only for Ethan to see, before she threw her 
head backwards to gaze at the still faint stars in the sky.

His face sat in a frown for a moment or so, before looking 
sideways at Nicole and then back again at the Swede who was 
looking upwards and bobbing his head slightly as if counting in 
his head. He checked his wristwatch; it was almost ten o’clock. 

“Twenty, twenty-five thousand pounds. Give or take,” said the 
Swede suddenly. Ethan did not have to act surprised or impressed 
when he said:

“Bloody hell. Where do they get that kind of money?”

“That,” the Swede said waving a hand dismissively, “is not my 
concern.”

“I mean, how do they get hold of that kind of exchange. The 
exchange rate is ridiculous, not to mention the exorbitant 
inflation.”

“Well, I’m not an expert, but the French economy isn’t that bad.”

“The who?” said Ethan with genuine puzzlement even though there 
was nothing wrong with his hearing.

“Your friend isn’t exactly up to date on this war, is he?” said 
the Swede to Nicole who simply shrugged.

“I thought that.. Never mind. I’m tired. I really I am. Let’s not 
have this kind of discussion right now. I’d rather listen to the 
radio,” said Ethan in a very natural way.

“There’s one down below. I am the host, I’ll go get it.”

Not a moment after the Swede went below, Nicole quickly turned 
her head and shot Ethan a look that overflowed with a raging 
intention for murder. She hissed, rather than said:

“Moron.”

Ethan replied calmly, almost nonchalantly:

“I won’t stab this one, don’t worry.”

Her nostrils flared with anger instinctively and right before she 
could retort, the Swede came back up, with the radio in hand. He 
tuned the dial first and then turned it on. Intense brass sounds 
and pompous drums came from the small speaker, while the Swede 
seemed instantly gratified judging from the grin on his face. 
Ethan asked him then:

“Could you tune that to the BBC?”

“You don’t like Wagner?”

“I thought the Germans had this craze about Wagner.”

“I thought he was Austrian.”

“Never mind that. `Top of the Pops’ is on now.”

“`Top of the Pops’? Seriously? You want to listen to that, now? 
Here?” said Nicole.

“It won’t hurt or anything, will it? I’m a big fan of the Stones.”

The Swede shrugged and turned the dial, while the selector 
remained on the AM setting. Through a flurry of white noise and 
incoherent sounds, a clear voice could be heard from the speaker 
albeit with some static but nevertheless with surprisingly good 
reception:

“..so until they’re ready, let’s listen to their latest single to 
hit the record stores, `Hey Jude’!”

A loud applause was heard and the announcer’s voice was cut 
crisply, while the clapping faded away and soon the voice of Paul 
McCartney came softly through.

Ethan’s brow became a deep furrow. He flexed his hands and looked 
at Nicole with a calm, steady gaze. She felt his stare upon her 
after a moment and looked at him with a quizzical expression. He 
shook his head slightly and simply said:

“I just hate the Beatles,” after which suddenly and least 
expected, the young boy at the helm smiled brightly and sang 
along, “..naa, na na na naaa, hey Jude...”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

Sometime into the night, they had traveled further down the 
river, mostly thanks to the stream rather than tiny motor. Nicole 
had been sleeping soundly for a few hours. But Ethan could not, 
now that he knew Nicole had been lying to him. What was worse, he 
couldn’t read what was the truth between her lies. She was an 
excellent shot, and she was well connected. Her agenda though 
still remained conspicuously well-hidden. Was she simply working 
for herself, like the Swede? But to what end? Did she really want 
to find Andy as much as he did? Thoughts like these - and some 
even worse - tugged at his mind like ropes, bogging him down in a 
spiral with no real answers, no clear exit. 

He felt it was dangerous to stick close to Nicole. But she had 
saved him more than once so far. Whatever her methods and her 
real purpose, maybe she had put all that aside for Andy’s sake. 
Maybe she’d explain later, maybe she had as much trouble trusting 
him as he did her. Andy was all that mattered, and soon - he 
hoped - he’d meet the corpse of some other unlucky bastard, not 
Andy’s. Nicole couldn’t really be trusted, but he had to admit to 
himself that she had gotten them this far. Andy was all that 
mattered, and that was what would keep him focused. That, and 
keeping a wary eye on her.

The warmth of the night earlier had given its place to a fresh, 
wet breeze that helped him stay awake despite the small hours. 
The Swede had helped with some sort of home-made vodka and 
stories about making even more money when the war would finally 
end: in the poor light the single lamp offered them, he’d shown 
him sketches and graphs about cables and telecommunications, 
satellites and whatnot, stuff that Ethan barely acknowledged they 
existed. Their little discussion was interrupted by the boy who 
spat out a glob of some sort of local chewing tobacco variety and 
said something in what must have been a local Igbo dialect.

He caught their attention and turning to look, they saw a flare 
lazily falling down, fading away with a trail of smoke behind it. 
Then another one shot up in the opposite direction further down 
from the east bank and they could almost see a small band of 
armed men waiting on a sandy patch of dirt.

“That’s them, two flares, first over the river, the second over 
land,” said the Swede, eagerly telling the boy in what sounded 
like very bad Igbo to cut the engine. As the boy complied, he 
went to the helm and let the stream carry them slowly towards the 
lowered east bank.

“And the best part is, I don’t have to off-load anything. They do 
all the work,” he said and pointed at the small group of men who 
were now holding a few lit lanterns and waving a torchlight to 
pin-point their location. The more they approached, the clearer 
it became not all of them were really men. Most were actually the 
same age the Swede’s helmsman was, and some looked shorter, 
skinnier, every bit younger than the boy.

“They sent the boys to do a boy’s work, no?” said the Swede 
smiling thinly before shaking Nicole gently on the shoulder and 
waking her up. In a heartbeat or two she was up, and after a 
couple of deep breaths and a stretch could have fooled anyone 
that she had slept for almost half a day. Ethan then asked the 
Swede, while Nicole bent slightly over the rim of the boat and 
splashed some water on her face:

“And they’ll take us to Owerri?”

“I wouldn’t know about that, but there’s a good chance. I can’t 
think of a reason they won’t. For a price, of course.”

“I kind of left almost everything back at the hotel in Onitsha. 
We are sort of short of cash.”

“Even a fiver is worth a month’s food down here. You’ll pass off 
as a rich man in Biafra,” the Swede replied, and Nicole added 
after a cough:

“There’s always other ways to pay, food and drugs being the 
highest in demand. And then there are the services.”

“Services? Can’t think there’s much office space in demand right 
now.”

“Are you really that thick, or is this your first war behind the 
trenches? Prostitution. Very commonplace.”

“I thought the Biafrans are hitting that pretty hard.”

“If you mean hard-ons, that’s true,” the Swede said with a sly 
grin that almost made him look rather slimy all of the sudden.

They felt the boat settle on the wet sand with ease, and the boy 
jumped outside holding a flimsy, worn rope that filled the role 
of a mooring line of sorts. One of the boys wearing fatigues from 
the waist down, seemingly accustomed to the process, found a 
nearby mangrove and tied the rope around it. Then a man barked a 
couple of orders and the boys laid down their weapons and formed 
a sort of ant-line, carefully treading up to the boat where two 
of them had already began unloading the cargo.

The man in charge wore a full set of fatigues and even sported a 
red beret. When Ethan and Nicole jumped off the boat, he 
immediately asked them, making sure with a wave of his hand that 
a couple of rifles were already aiming at them:

“Who dem they now?” to which the Swede replied casually:

“Looking to get into Owerri. Looking for a Red Cross man. I’ve 
done business with her. Him, I’ve just met.”

“Ask the Red Cross, then,” the man said with a face that 
signified hostility.

“The Red Cross lost a caravan. Would you know anything about 
that?”

“Do I look like the Red Cross, Englishman?” said the man with a 
sudden, wide grin, barely able to hold a laugh.

“Alright, we just want you to get us to Owerri.”

“What dem for?” asked the man, crossing his arms.

“We need to take a look at a corpse,” said Nicole rather bluntly, 
almost angrily.

The man shrugged and nodded, before adding in a quite plain 
fashion:

“Heard stranger things.”

He then shouted a few words that must have been names, because 
two boys settled down a crate they were carrying and came over to 
him. A short deliberation later, and after he had pointed at 
Ethan and Nicole quite fervently, they picked up their weapons 
and motioned with an awkward, mixed expression of confusion, fear 
and faked bravado to follow them. The man asked Ethan then:

“Rolex? Tag?”

“No, but it’s eighteen karat gold anyway,” Ethan replied and 
unfastened it from his wrist, passing it over to the man and 
giving him an unpleasant look that seemed to go completely 
unnoticed. The man weighed the clock in his hand first and then 
asked Ethan with a rather serious tone:

“And her?”

“What do you mean? If this doesn’t seem enough, then-”

“I don’t want her money,” he said and licked his lips 
provocatively. Nicole shook her head, while the Swede gave his 
flask of vodka a swig, giggled and snorted.

“Now, wait a minute!” said Ethan in what sounded like a poor 
attempt at passing for the guy with all the men and the guns. He 
was about to reach for his ankle knife when Nicole burst into 
laughter, and said in-between:

“I mean, where’s that vaunted, sense of humor, huh? Jesus, Ethan, 
you take everything too seriously.”

The man nodded and extended his hand in what seemed a genuine 
gesture, motioning the boys to lower their guns as well.

“Ms. Heurgot and I have met in the past. I thought it was strange 
to meet again under so similar circumstances?”

“I wasn’t searching for a corpse back then, Yenkele,” said 
Nicole, shaking her head.

“No, but you looked just as wonderful and sleepless,” Yenkele 
replied with the tiniest hint of a bow.

“You can tell?” said Nicole, with a smile and a nod. Ethan asked 
Yenkele in all seriousness, “Can I at least have my watch back 
then, if your friend would be so kind?” to which he received the 
frank answer, “Oh, I’m keeping the watch. War contribution.”

“Ah, I see. Any more surprises?” Ethan said with an almost 
shrill, irate voice.

“I’m all out of vodka,” said the Swede and everyone let out a 
small laugh, except for Ethan, who couldn’t help looking at 
Nicole like she had stabbed him in the eye.

“Come, let’s walk over to the truck.”

“Opel?” asked Nicole with hands in her pockets, Ethan walking a 
few steps behind her.

“Unimog from Angola,” replied Yenkele and nodded 
enthusiastically. Nicole then said, “Going up in the world, I 
see.”

Soon they were sitting inside the cabin of the truck and the last 
of the cargo had been loaded. The Swede was waving goodbye as he 
and the boy turned the boat around and headed upstream, when 
Yenkele started the engine with a powerful rev that blanked out 
everything for a few seconds. When the noise died down, he asked 
Nicole:

“Where do I drop you off?”

“The morgue,” said Ethan uninvited, and Nicole nodded. There was 
a strange look of bewilderment on Yenkele’s eyes that quickly 
gave its place to a mild indifference, when he said:

“I thought you were joking about the corpse.”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

The morgue’s pale blue-white neon lights made even the living 
stand out as if they had been just as cold dead as the corpses 
filling it. The whole cooling chamber was actually reserved for 
important people, like officials, dignitaries, and mostly 
foreigners. Somehow to the Biafrans it was really important that 
a dead foreigner - perhaps a journalist or a UN official or a 
priest with inordinate amounts of belief in mankind - received 
all due care when the time came: a morgue, a funeral, a 
tombstone. The rest of the normal people could just die wherever 
they liked, but not the foreigners. 

“We keep them here, until their relatives and governments are 
notified. Most are claimed, and we arrange the transportation of 
the body through the Red Cross, sometimes the UN. Some though, 
stay here forever,” said the doctor in charge. Nicole asked then, 
“You can keep a corpse indefinitely?”

“No, I mean they get buried here, in Biafra. We can’t keep anyone 
more than two weeks. Not a lot of room, anyway. But this is a 
remarkably equipped facility. The bodies are kept in cold 
storage,” he said with a slightly awkward smile. Ethan said 
bluntly, impatiently:

“Will you just, show us the corpse?”, to which the doctor nodded 
and led the way towards a specific slot, while Ethan added “
Un-fucking-believable. It’s like a bloody farmer’s market, isn’t 
it?”. He wiped his mouth without a need, suddenly feeling nervous 
despite the fact that he really believed this corpse was simply a 
useful mistake from which they could move on. Still, something 
inside ate at him. A quick gaze at Nicole told him that odd 
feeling came from her. The question of why she had lied to him 
gnawed his mind.

“Ready?” asked the doctor, to which Ethan retorted:

“You’re not very good at this, you know that, don’t you?”

“A doctor is supposed to tend to the living, sir,” the doctor 
said apologetically, and continued, “I’m only saying that because 
the sight is particularly..”

“Just get on with it, yes, please,” said Ethan and the pulled the 
handle on the small door, opening it carefully, almost 
reverently. He slid out the stainless bed with care, revealing 
the badly charred body of a man laying almost comfortably on his 
back, with a bullet-ridden chest almost torn to pieces. Nicole 
gasped at the sight instantly and her face furrowed, while Ethan 
couldn’t help wondering at how anyone could identify this man 
with any amount of certainty. The doctor spoke then in a 
professional, easy voice:

“White Caucasian male, judging from the shape of the hips and the 
cranium. Large entry and exit wounds on the chest probably from a 
high-powered rifle. Body stance indicates the fire was irrelevant 
to the man’s death. Two gold fillings melted away, both on the 
right frontal wisdom teeth. A broken clavicula, an older wound, 
possibly as a child.”

The doctor paused, as if waiting for something from either Ethan 
or Nicole, but they both remained silent for more than just a 
moment. The doctor felt compelled to ask:

“Does this man seem to be the one you’re looking for?”

Nicole broke down in sudden tears, sobbing like a little girl 
then and nodded furiously even as the doctor tried to show her 
the burnt off personal effects that were found on the body: 
Andy’s switchblade, his steel-cased watch with their father’s 
signature on them, and a badly burnt but still somewhat readable 
passport. It was all there, this looked exactly like Andy’s body.

Ethan stood silent, while Nicole took a step back. He took a 
good, hard look at the charred body lying in front of him. Nicole 
placed her hand on her mouth, and sobbed quietly, respectfully, 
before whispering, “Oh, God.. Andy..” . Ethan looked at the 
doctor, and then at the body once more, from head to toe, vainly 
trying to find a sign of life in that piece of charcoal lying in 
front of him.

He looked at Nicole then with a curious look, as if he had never 
seen that woman before in his life. His brother’s wife, he 
reminded himself. Something very human inside pushed him to hold 
her in his arms gently, offer a crying shoulder, while a part of 
his mind raced in the completely opposite direction. And that 
part of his mind was the part that was usually right about basic 
things, like keeping out of trouble, dodging bullets and gunfire. 
Instinct made the hair on his back suddenly rise, a chill went 
down his spine when the doctor’s words rang once more in his 
mind.

The medical report; the wisdom teeth. He could see the doctor 
idly fiddling with some sort of report on his writing pad. He 
caught a glance of him looking back. The doctor tried his best at 
smiling uncomfortably before fixing his attention once more in 
the writing pad. Ethan’s eyes looked around the morgue and 
flipped a few pages in recent memory; no X-ray machine.

That same bone, but no incisions. That very same bone, since they 
were thirteen years old. He shot Nicole another weird, expectant 
look. He asked himself then how she could not see it for herself. 
Unless, he thought, she could, and she did. Because she must have 
known as well, and that only meant she was taking him for a fool. 
A damn near-sighted, forgetful fool.

His heart must’ve skipped a beat when he heard the doctor ask him 
rather hesitantly:

“Is this your brother then?”

He cleared his throat and closed his eyes for a moment. He drew a 
deep breath and said with a reluctant, shy voice, even as Nicole 
threw herself into another fit of sobs:

“Who do we talk to about the funeral?”

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

The Metropolitaine was filled with newly sworn-in Nigerian 
recruits. Clean-cut and shaven, their new uniforms pressed, they 
seemed to be having the time of their lives; the next day and 
wherever in the war that might take them was a thought for 
another time. Loud roaring laughter mingled with the sound of 
clashing glassware; some danced to the rhythm of half-drunken, 
clapping hands while other sang on top of their lungs. One would 
think that the war had ended, but that wasn’t so.

James sat on a bar stool on the corner of one bar, sipping 
quietly at a glass of red wine, his eyes peering through the 
throng of young soldiers as if waiting for something to happen. 
Louis was too busy to engage in any of his usually idle chat; he 
kept filling glasses and mugs with no end in sight.

A white, tall man in his fifties approached James. He had a thick 
grey mustache and piercing blue eyes, set in a congenial, 
friendly-looking face. He asked James with an horrible, 
unmistakably French accent:

“Red wine, in this kind of an establishment?” to which James 
retorted with a tooth-filled grin:

“Better than a Frenchman in Lagos.”

The two men shook hands fervently and the Frenchman sat down. He 
waved a hand to Louis, but he did not notice him. The man turned 
to James, shrugged and said:

“The service is terrible, non?”

“Blame the war, Giles,” replied James and sipped some more wine. 
He then pointed to the crowd of recruits in the Metropolitaine 
and continued:

“That’s 2nd Company, 298th Battalion, 1st Infantry Brigade, 1st 
Infantry Division.”

“Are they any good?”

“No. The ones they’re replacing are mostly dead. It’s just how it 
works, you know? Work with what you’ve got, and so on,” he said 
and shook his head.

“I see,” replied Giles, eying the soldiers with an inquisitive 
look though hasty look. He nodded to Louis who motioned a hand, 
and almost ran to take his order. Sweating, and nearly out of 
breath, Louis asked him:

“Monsieur Rafoccat, gin?” asked Louis and the Frenchman simply 
nodded before asking James with some hesitation:

“Anything new?”

James shook his head and shrugged, his reaction floating 
somewhere genuine ignorance and feigned indifference. The 
Frenchman went on:

“There’s a lot in stake here. I don’t need to remind you that, do 
I?” he said and turned to the bar to get his drink. Louis smiled 
at first, but then saw the look on James face and decided to 
leave the two men entirely alone, leaving without having spoken a 
word. James asked Giles then, curtly and to the point:

“Are you ready then?”

The Frenchman seemed a little taken aback, even offended. He 
frowned and a somewhat uneasy moment passed before he answered:

“Not yet, no.”

He took a sip from his drink and ran it around his mouth before 
swallowing. James nodded to himself before asking Giles, his 
voice carrying a hint of urgency:

“What about the others? Is that the only cell in operation?”

The Frenchman shook his head, and waved a hand dismissively. 

“Would you have put all your.. What is it that the English say? 
Eggs in one basket?” he said to James in a disaffected manner.

“I’m not running this war, Giles,” replied James with suppressed 
ire.

“But you certainly know your way around one,” retorted the 
Frenchman, pointing a finger at James, who silently sipped at his 
wine for a few moments, looking pensive. He said then hesitantly, 
looking Giles straight in the eye.

“It’s happening soon. A matter of weeks.”

The Frenchman pursed his lips and nodded appreciatively, tapping 
a hand on the bar with a sense of accomplishment.

“I’ll pickup the details in the usual way,” he said smiling and 
sipped some of his drink almost triumphantly, before adding: “
James?”

“Yes?”

“I hope you’ll stay on until the end or else, we will all lose,” 
said Giles in a suddenly serious, almost solemn way.

“Of course,” replied Ethan without hesitation. Giles smiled 
thinly before saying:

“There is something else I have wanted to ask you ever since you 
approached us. Is it just the money? Or do you really feel their 
cause is just?”

The Frenchman’s tone had a curious ring to it, as if the answer 
would be exhilarating. James shrugged and sipped at his wine 
before answering:

“I have my reasons, as you have yours. Is it your sense of duty? 
Pride in your work? Love for your country?”

Giles seemed to be taken aback once more, James answer in the 
form of a question not fitting in with what he had expected. “
It’s just orders, James,” he said, and smiled unevenly.

“That’s never enough,” replied James through a thin grin, “Not 
when your life is on the line, Giles. Is it the dreams, or is it 
the nightmares that keep you going?”

“I don’t have nightmares, James,” said the Frenchman shaking his 
head lightly.

“Everyone has nightmares, Giles, everyone,” said James and 
finished his wine in one big gulp. He then got up and left 
without paying up. Outside the Metropolitaine, he grinned widely 
to himself and looked at the night sky. Heavy clouds hang above; 
a hard rain would fall.

Blood as thin as water

“I’m deeply sorry for your loss,” said Father Likembe and nodded 
solemnly. He struck Ethan as a man of integrity and good will. 
His words sounded true enough, so Ethan obliged a sincere reply:

“Thank you, father,” he said and nodded pensively, suddenly lost 
in thought, his eyes fixed beyond the mass of people waiting for 
a meal. There was a peaceful murmur in the air, rarely broken by 
the sound of crying children. The people that had gathered 
weren’t restless at all. He had been expecting something of a 
riot, and this orderly manner fascinated him. Nicole must’ve 
thought he was still trying to come to grips when she took him 
gently by the arm and said to the priest with a tiny shake of her 
head:

“If you need anything father, please.. Anything at all..”

Father Likembe’s mouth formed into a gracious smile before he 
replied, “I need this war to end, nothing more.”

Nicole nodded skeptically before the lank Igbo priest continued:

“We could always use an extra hand or two. Another couple of 
mouths to feed are, as you can see, just a drop in the ocean.”

He gestured at the small throng of people, mostly mothers with 
their children, as well as old men and quite a few disabled or 
injured men. Some of those had the stare of a wounded tiger, but 
for most the truth was that mines, shells, and bullets are quite 
oblivious to a man’s allegiance and unable to discriminate. They 
had simply been unlucky, and with a bitter smile to himself, 
Ethan thought that whole sordid affair reeked of bad luck.

“I can only hope you will consider it. I’d hate to force anything 
upon you, but do not forget, your brother died trying to keep 
others from such a fate,” said Father Likembe, trying to sound 
comforting and encouraging but with little success this time; his 
words sounded more like a standard, ready-made speech.

Nicole sipped her coffee from a tin and said with a slight dose 
of uncertainty, careful to meet Ethan’s gaze casually:

“I think I’ll stay on, father. I don’t know for how long, but I 
feel I should. I can’t speak for Ethan, but I’ll help.”

Ethan caught that gaze and remained expressionless for a moment 
or two. He was still trying to discern the from truth in her 
eyes, her voice, her face, but he had proven quiet inept at it so 
far. It helped him though being constantly unsure of her; it 
enhanced his feelings of being distraught, disoriented, confused 
and wary at the same time - because Nicole probably thought he 
was acting weird because of Andy’s death. And that should help 
him find out why she wanted him to think Andy was dead.

The priest smiled thinly and crossed his palms as if in prayer:

“That’s always good to hear,” he said with evident joy in his 
voice before adding in a more sombre, well-practiced,even tone:

“I can understand your grief would only be compounded in such a 
place.”

He then looked at Nicole knowingly and added, while Ethan 
furrowed his brow just barely:

“Nicole has been doing this for a long time, it’s part of who she 
is. It’s not an easy life, especially for someone like you, I 
would imagine,” Father Likembe said, clearing his throat and 
straightening his back at the same time. He leaned closer to 
Ethan who was sitting to his left and said with a clean, hearty 
voice as if preaching:

“Do not feel unwanted or unwelcome, my son. It would be for the 
best if you coped with this in your own terms, in your own 
manner. I know your heart is in the right place, but your soul 
needs to heal away from all this misery.”

Nicole looked at Ethan with a warm gaze, her lips pursed together 
in a show of sympathy. Ethan glanced at the mass of refugees 
sitting in large rough benches made out of trees. He nodded then 
and said:

“You mean I’m responsible for these poor bastards, right? That’s 
what a soldier does, is it not?”

Father Likembe shook his head with a deep frown, his voice calm 
and quiet:

“I never said that, Ethan. I mean well, I simply think this isn’t 
the right place or way for you to mourn.”

Nicole searched for Ethan’s face with her own, a set of begging, 
weary eyes fluttering frantically:

“Andy would have stayed. Isn’t that right?”

The gall of that woman, Ethan thought to himself. 

“Yes he would have. But that’s not the issue, is it? You think 
I’m trouble, the both of you.”

“I think you are troubled my son, and nothing more.”

“Well, if it’s all the same to you then, I’m staying too.”

Nicole’s eyes flashed and went wide for the tiniest moment, 
before a thin smile formed on her face. She glanced at the priest 
and said then:

“If it’s alright with Father Likembe, then. Still, you shouldn’t 
stay just because you think Andy would have wanted you to take 
his place. You are different people, there’s nothing wrong to 
that. You can still help in other ways, Ethan. There’s no shame 
in going home.”

“’Were’ different people. We were different people, Nicole. Get 
used to it,” Ethan said hoarsely, got up from his chair and 
walked away into the crowd, looking hurt and irritated. Nicole 
shouted his name but he did not turn. When it seemed as if she’d 
go after him, Father Likembe took her by one hand and shook his 
head, his face turned suddenly worried, fearful.

“Don’t push him,” he said unevenly, while Nicole answered with a 
purposeful voice, “I’m not sure he is convinced. This isn’t like 
him at all.” Father Likembe’s eyes narrowed, his voice 
instinctively lowered to a whisper:

“I thought you were married to his brother. You’ve hardly met the 
man. Have you..?” He raised an eyebrow and fixed his glasses with 
one hand in a very bad attempt at conspiracy, only to have Nicole 
look at him sideways with a mock look of hurt and a sly grin.

“I don’t work like that. And it wouldn’t have worked on him, 
either.”

“How so?” said the priest looking at Ethan from afar with a 
penetrating, curious gaze.

“Because he loves his brother, if nothing else,” said Nicole, her 
face twisted with unwanted approval. Father Likembe closed his 
eyes and shook his head feverishly. He licked a drop of sweat on 
his upper lip, and said with hushed spurious undertones:

“Why is he so important?”

“He isn’t. But he’s prodding where he shouldn’t be. I’ve already 
lost valuable time, not to mention men, simply to get him off our 
backs. We need to keep the food and the medicines coming.”

“Alongside the guns, the bullets, and the shells?” asked the 
father with a smile, his hands tracing the emptied tin cup of 
coffee in front of him, his eyes lost somewhere beyond the church 
grounds.

“It’s hard to win a war with nothing but empty hands and fiery 
rhetoric, isn’t it father?” replied Nicole, her eyes discreetly 
following Ethan around the crowd, as he had taken it upon himself 
to hand out biscuits to all the children. He seemed relaxed, 
faintly smiling out of sympathy. There was a deep, brewing sorrow 
on the rest of his face.

Father Likembe smiled thinly and said, “Sometimes, I’m not really 
sure which one of us works for the other.” He took off his 
glasses and placed them in his shirt’s pocket, and massaged his 
eyes through shut eyelids. Nicole turned to face him with a 
sudden twist, as if her interest had been piqued out of nowhere 
in particular.

“Well, that’s because we’re supposed to be working together, 
father. Towards a common goal.”

“Protecting common interests, now perhaps that’s true. That’s 
what I had been led to believe as well,” he said and breathed 
deeply before he continued, “until I heard you killed Nebdele,” 
said the priest with eyes closed, his hands now lightly massaging 
his bald head. “I would hardly call that working together.”

“It’s getting to you, isn’t it? All this,” said Nicole and made a 
small circle with one hand. She drank a sip of coffee and said, 
eyes level with the priest’s, “Maybe you’re confused. It was 
unfortunate, but necessary. Things sometimes go wrong.”

The priest turned his gaze over to Ethan who was talking to a 
young amputee. “Was it him?” he asked, pointing his index finger 
lazily towards Ethan.

“No, it was me. He’d probably talk and talk can easily get you 
killed,” said Nicole and lit up a cigarette casually. Father 
Likembe got up and stretched his back, before speaking as if to 
an invisible audience, hands crossed over his chest:

“I’ve been posing as the good Samaritan, smiling for the cameras 
and the journalists, fighting the good fight against hunger and 
sorrow like some kind of meek, weak puppet. We are not puppets, 
do you understand me?”

“It all happened really fast. I’m sure you can replace someone 
like Adu.”

“Damn you, Nicole! It’s not like there’s a real lot of us left!” 
spat out the priest and started to pace about the small patio.

“I think he was trying to haggle with me. Ask more in return for 
his little help.”

“And is that supposed to justify his death? He was invaluable, 
for God’s sake! His info and connections could have gotten us 
Onitsha back a lot easier. That might have turned the tide once 
more but now..” he said and shook his head with a frown upon his 
brow.

“It would be too late for that now, wouldn’t it?” replied Nicole 
with consternation. She then got up before she told him 
earnestly, without a hint of malice or threat in her voice:

“I have my orders as well. You understand that, don’t you father? 
There are things both of us have to endure. Especially you and 
your people. It’s how things are in the world my friend in need.”

“But at what cost?” he replied with weariness, his eyes red with 
sadness.

“What’s a life worth to you, father?” she asked him, her face 
intensely sweet and welcoming. Father Likembe looked her in the 
eye with a pained look and said in a trembling voice:

“How I wish it were that simple.”

She smiled then mischievously and told him in a casual tone of 
voice:

“Don’t fret about it. I’ll know what to do with Ethan in the 
morning.”

“How will all this end, Nicole?” he asked resignedly. He went and 
said, “How will all this play out, now that you had to kill Adu. 
Now that Onitsha is lost and the bombings go on and on. Now that 
there’s so few of us left,” his voice coarse and grainy.

“Faith, father. You’ve got to have faith,” she said flatly and 
walked away casually.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

It was the heat and the sweat that made sleep that night a 
particularly uncomfortable, bothersome affair. Knowing that 
Nicole had been lying to him ever since they had met though, made 
it nearly impossible for Ethan.

He opened his eyes and checked his watch under the dim moonlight; 
it was a quarter past three. The night was wet and warm as usual. 
Without a cloud nearby, the sky promised a night without rain 
even though it was the middle of the rainy season.

He raised his head and blinked, his eyes adjusting slowly to what 
little light shone through the shadows of the mangroves 
surrounding the catholic mission. He got up from the soft hay 
mattress on the floor and leaned to the window, resting both his 
elbows on the sill. He saw that most of the refugees had 
remained; a few pregnant mothers shared tents with some large 
families, while the rest simply slept on the ground, sharing thin 
blankets, mats, rugs and pillows.

A faint lamp light shone from a hut next to the church across 
from the small barn-turned-warehouse where Ethan had been 
sleeping. It was the priest’s hut, the same man who had tried to 
convince him to leave so eagerly, just like Nicole had. The 
thought a clergy man was in some kind of shady deal with the 
likes of Nicole and her people wouldn’t strike him as odd; 
stranger things had happened and no piece of cloth could turn a 
man into a saint.

Ethan decided he had to take a closer look into the hut. He 
scowled for a moment before he put on his trousers without so 
much as a sound. He kept his eyes fixed on the priest’s hut, and 
noticed the movement of a shadow now and then, a flicker of the 
flame every so often. Someone was working late, and he needed to 
know who and why. Perhaps the priest simply had trouble sleeping, 
perhaps there was a lot more than simply planning rations.

He strapped his combat knife in its sheath around his leg and got 
outside through another window on the far right. In the cover of 
the shadow from a thick, tall mangrove, he managed to nearly land 
on top of a family soundly asleep, all embraced together, curled 
up to protect each other from an invisible threat.

When he came close enough to the hut, he quickly crossed a patch 
of dirt. He reached the wall of the hut and flicked his gaze 
around him. He couldn’t see anyone up and about, but he could 
hear a man’s voice, somewhat rugged and deep. It sounded like 
Father Likembe, the difference being that he was speaking French. 
He used curt, small bursts of words and had a heavy, crude 
accent.

There was some kind of pattern to his speech; he was repeating 
words in a staccato fashion. It was as if he was reading 
something from a piece of paper, a series of words and numbers 
perhaps.

Then he heard the crackle of static, a small pause and another 
crackle of static. A radio, double-tapping the transmit button. A 
clear, simple way to transmit “acknowledged”. Ethan knew then the 
father was definitely part of this whole charade that Nicole had 
put on for his sake. And there was probably a lot that could be 
answered that night.

Nicole was supposedly sleeping inside the church along with some 
women. Ethan thought then he should’ve checked up on her before 
he’d come to the priest’s hut; he’d like to know whether or not 
he should be watching his back.

He waited for a few more minutes, his eyes checking up on the 
church, his gaze wandering around the camp. The only people awake 
seemed to be himself and Father Likembe. How telling that they 
both seemed to pay him so little attention. They probably thought 
that he’d fallen for everything, hook and sinker. Too eager to 
believe that their plan had worked, too eager to get him off 
their backs and go back to whatever it was he had upset by 
looking for Andy.

The more you rush things, the more chances there are for them to 
go downhill. And Ethan would prove it to them.

When the radio crackled once more into life, he heard a few short 
phrases, and then he heard some numbers. He counted six numbers, 
before he heard them being repeated. Suddenly he heard the 
clicking sound of a few switches. Father Likembe had powered down 
the radio set. He then counted to fifteen, got up and casually 
walked straight through the half-open door with a halfhearted, 
visibly forced grin.

“Evening, Father,” he said, even as his eyes darted around the 
small, unremarkable room as if marveling at it while in fact he 
was searching for anything that could be used as a weapon. Father 
Likembe had barely began to conceal the radio under a thick piece 
of red embroidered cloth used in the services. He seemed 
confounded, surprised, almost embarrassed. He looked down to his 
feet before he took off his glasses, folded them and placed them 
in the rather large desk that was the single most dominant future 
in the room.

“Please, have a seat,” he said with disarming mellowness, 
motioning Ethan to pull up an empty folding chair.

“I prefer to stand. You see, I’m kind of sore from sitting around 
lately, ” replied Ethan with a calm, conversational tone.

The priest nodded silently and produced a bottle of colorless 
liquid from behind a stack of thick books, scribbled papers and 
ragged notebooks. He offered the bottle to Ethan whose mouth 
curled into a genuine smile before he asked the priest:

“Is it malt?”

“The local kind.”

“Is it stiff?”

“It’s pretty bad if that’s what you mean.”

“Can you spare a cup then, father?”

Father Likembe’s pearly teeth shined under the lamplight as he 
smiled broadly. He made a motion to reach a cupboard to his 
right. The move alarmed Ethan and made him reach for the knife 
around his ankle. The priest gestured with one hand for him to 
stop, and still smiling broadly he said:

“Always belligerent? I’m reaching for the glasses. It would be 
sinful to drink whiskey from a cup.”

Ethan nodded while his face had become suddenly stern. Father 
Likembe slowly opened the cupboard with one hand, showed Ethan 
the glasses and picked one with each hand. He made a little room 
on the paper-littered desk and set the glasses down. Ethan 
noticed a pad scribbled with letters, numbers, and words, and 
another one, boxed numbers printed all over it. A one-time pad, 
he concluded in his mind.

The priest didn’t seem to care; if anything else his flimsy cover 
had been blown. There wasn’t really any reason to cover anything 
up at that point.

Ethan picked up his glass and hesitated before having a sip; he 
saw the priest gulp down a mouthful and flinch. He followed suit 
but tried to savor the whiskey. He soon understood it for the 
mistake it was; the burning and the acrid smell of the drink 
hinted at battery fluid or something equally awful; Ethan spat 
out the rest and put down the glass, wiping his mouth in the 
process. He looked sick, his expression sour like lemons.

“How can you even drink that?” he asked almost accusingly. The 
priest laughed genuinely, but politely before he said:

“It’s an acquired taste. As you should know, we have to make do 
with what we can.”

“And who exactly are you referring to?” asked Ethan leaning on 
the desk a couple of feet away from the priest. Father Likembe 
replied with a serene yet prideful voice:

“The Republic of Biafra. I’m referring to all the starving women 
and children, all the bloodied, fighting men. All of the Igbo 
people, fighting for our freedom.”

“A patriot?”

“Are you not, Mr. Whittmore? There are many ways to fight a war, 
I can assure you. As much as it pains me, I’ve made my choice and 
let no-one but God alone judge me,” he said and drank a sip from 
his glass, his red-shot eyes now staring at Ethan intensely. 
Ethan sat with his back against the wall near the desk, and 
focused on the papers and the notes that filled its surface. 
Without turning to look at the priest, he said dejectedly:

“I thought meself as a patriot once. It doesn’t pay off in the 
long run, not at all.”

“What kind of a patriot expects to be paid?”

“What kind of a priest makes a deal with the devil.”

“The ones that are only human.”

“Where is my brother?”

“I cannot tell you that. I will not tell you anything about that.”

“So you do know he is alive? And you do know his location?”

The priest remained silent for a moment or two before answering 
flatly:

“I can only hope you will maybe understand.”

“Understand that you don’t want me to find my brother?”

“Please, you are not fooling anyone. This has got to stop. I can 
play the part of the meek, I cannot be the fool.”

“Well, isn’t that fresh? You’re accusing me of trying to fool 
you?”

“You’d have me think you’re doing all this to find your brother? 
And you’re telling me you just happen to be a Captain in the 
Royal Marines, serving as a military advisor in Lagos for the 
past two years? Posing as a journalist, running off in the jungle 
setting off mines and getting shot at, with no other purpose 
other than to find your brother?”

“She really filled in the gaps, didn’t she? I’m not sure if 
family drama is your thing father, but Andy’s all I’ve got left, 
and by God, I’ll see this through.”

“Maybe you are telling the truth, maybe not. I’ve lost my way 
with people ever since I’ve had to bloody my hands. But I can’t 
let you know.”

“Why the bloody hell not, father?”

“I’ve taken an oath.”

“Well, it seems you’ve broken a few before, why are you being so 
picky with this one?”

“Can’t you realise, I’m only working with Nicole and the French 
because there is no other choice other than to be eradicated? 
They were planning a genocide and your country is trying their 
best to make it happen!”

“Listen, father,” said Ethan with a grin of irony before he 
added, “I couldn’t care less. I’m only here because I want my 
brother back. Alive or dead, I’m getting him back, whether you 
like it or not. What were those numbers from the radio chat? 
Coordinates? A date?”

“So much for being a patriot.”

“As I said, it doesn’t pay much. What about those numbers?”

“That’s what the one-time pad is for,” said the priest, his 
nostrils flaring. “I didn’t have time to decode it just yet.”

“What about the rest of the message?”

“That’s nothing but chatter to have the cryptanalysts working on 
it for no reason. It’s just the numbers and the one-time pad.”

“Smoke and mirrors? That simple?”

“People doing this kind of job tend to become paranoid after a 
while. Think of it as hiding in plain sight.”

“I think you’re pulling my leg, that’s what I think. Get back on 
that radio.”

“It’s no use. There will be no-one to receive until the next 
transmission.”

“Well, go on, try it out,” said Ethan and drew his knife in one 
swift motion. Father Likembe did not seem impressed at all and 
replied flatly after downing the last mouthful in his glass:

“Do it if you think you must.”

“I’ve done worse.”

“It will get you nowhere.”

“I never said I’m as smart as people might think.”

“Go on then,” said the priest with an unnerving serenity drawn 
across his face.

And then they suddenly heard a thin, rising wail that rapidly 
cascaded into a shrieking cacophony that seemed to pierce the 
skies. Ethan’s eyes searched sideways through the window for a 
moment, and barely said to himself:

“Bloody jets.”

In that flick of an eye, Father Likembe sprang up from his chair 
like a coiled snake and threw himself against Ethan, both his 
hands aiming for the arm with the knife. The sound of jets 
screeching overhead blanketed everything else, including Ethan’s 
surprise and the priest anguished cry of effort. 

Half the camp was practically on their feet the moment the jets 
clearly passed overhead, their engines leaving a white hot flare 
in the now murky dark sky. 

Ethan’s blade flashed steel-white in the moonlight as he 
struggled with the priest. He could hear the gasps and the 
instinctive shuffling of feet from the still groggy crowd.

The priest kicked him hard against his ankle, and he had to fold 
his leg. Trying to compensate for the loss of balance Ethan 
swerved low and punched Father Likembe in the stomach.

As the thundering roar of the jets seemed to grow distant, a 
small moment of shocked silence preceded the dazzling explosion 
that threw them both off their feet and across the room, through 
the flimsy wall.

Ethan’s ears rang with a high-pitched buzz and he felt his heart 
thumping in his head. An excruciating feeling of pain ran down 
his left side.

As he struggled to get back on his feet, his eyes caught the 
jarred glimpses of pure panic: mothers screaming and dragging 
their children alongside with them, men craning their necks to 
find the next trail or engine exhaust in the night sky. A fire 
had started out somewhere nearby, smoke and the smell of burned 
flesh being carried aloft into the night. 

He looked around then for Father Likembe and out of the corner of 
his eye he barely had time to see him before the priest knocked 
him in the head with something blunt and heavy. Ethan felt his 
head was about to crack open when he blindly threw a couple of 
quick jabs. One of those connected, and made the father stumble 
before taking a step back to have another swing. 

Ethan drew his wits about him and saw the opening, lunging head 
first with the knife in his hand. He swung the knife and fell 
forward, knocking the priest down. Father Likembe tried to squirm 
away, avoiding to get pinned down by the more heavy-set Ethan.

He was bleeding either from the cut or lacerations from the 
explosion. The blood on his body made him slippery enough and 
while Ethan was forcing most of his body weight on top of the 
priest, he was slowly inching his way towards the base of the 
hut.

Ethan growled and punched him in the face. Then Father Likembe 
threw a hand full of dirt right into Ethan’s face, and in that 
split second of disarray and blindness, he freed himself away 
from Ethan and leaped with what seemed to be his last vestiges of 
energy. Ethan went right after him, blinking furiously and crying 
trying to clear the dirt from his eyes.

The priest was frantically searching the ground for something, 
when he upturned a stone and drew a shiny, metal object from 
inside the ground. A gun creche; Ethan swung the knife up high 
and as he forced it down on Father Likembe, the father rolled on 
his back and sent a couple of shots into the air.

He missed wildly, while Ethan swing had teared open his neck. 
Women’s shouts and children’s cries could be heard anew. Father 
Likembe was vainly trying to plug his gushing wound with bare 
hands. His body was sagged and a small pool of blood had already 
formed around his buttocks. His vestments were already a 
blood-soaked ruin.

As he spent a moment catching his breath, Ethan saw Nicole 
smudged and smoked, her clothes a ragged mess, rushing towards 
him through the thinning smoke. She saw them lying down on top of 
each other and went inside the nearly destroyed hut without so 
much as a word. Ethan’s instincts sprang into action and he 
rushed right behind her, grabbing her from the waist only a few 
inches away from the cot.

“I need a towel, you moron!” screamed Nicole while Ethan tried to 
tie her hands behind her back. Without letting go of the knife he 
fumbled and swerved this way and that without really grappling 
her. They both fell awkwardly on the cot’s torn mattress, and 
Nicole found the opportunity and drove a hell of kick with her 
bare-footed heel on Ethan’s foot. Flinching from pain, he 
loosened his grip involuntarily and allowed her to spin around 
and punch him hard across the face.

Ethan staggered for a couple of moments and saw her indeed grab a 
towel from the cot and frantically ignore him. She hurried close 
to Father Likembe who was trying to breathe through sputters of 
blood. He kept opening and closing his mouth aimlessly as if 
trying to speak but no sound came out of him other than a 
shallow, hollow roar, like a deathly snore.

“Hang on father, don’t try to talk, just breathe. Let’s stop the 
blood, ” said Nicole in an impossibly calm voice, even as she 
tied the towel around Father Likembe’s neck as tight as possible 
without choking him. Ethan had remained stunned at how she had 
completely ignored him.

A few of the braver men that had remained in the camp, were 
trying to evacuate the women and the children without anyone 
getting trampled. Some were trying to put out the surrounding 
fires before they became a real threat for the church. They saw 
them then near the body of the priest, and shouted something in 
Igbo. Ethan looked their way with a puzzled expression as he felt 
the first drops of rain fall on his face.

Nicole shouted back in what sounded surprisingly good Igbo, and 
didn’t even spare a moment away from Father Likembe.

And then she felt Ethan’s knife against her throat, the coldness 
of the steel a stark contrast to the warm sweat covering her from 
head to toe.

“What the fuck are you doing?” she said even as she calmly tried 
to apply more pressure to the father’s wound, the white in 
Likembe’s eyes rolling about as if he was about to have some sort 
of seizure.

“What does it look like?” said Ethan, his kneecap forcing Nicole 
to bend forward in a very uncomfortable position down on the 
ground. He forced her arm behind her back and kept it there 
forcibly, her free hand flailing wildly with the towel.

“Whatever it is you’re thinking, just let me try and save this 
man, for God’s sake!”

“You’re just wanking me around again, aren’t you? He’s got 
another minute or two to live, and that’s all. Main artery’s 
ripped open, he’s bleeding like a pig.”

“That’s your handiwork right there!”

“Next time I’ll stand by and have me shot then.”

“We needed this man alive.”

“After all this, you’re still taking me for a pillock then? Why, 
the nerve!”

“The man’s dying, could you at least have the decency-”

“Enough!”

The dripping rain grew into a rainstorm in mere moments. From the 
corner of his eye Ethan could see the women and the children had 
sought refuge in the small church.

Nicole’s voice was calm, quiet; controlled.

“Father Likembe,” she said and swallowed hard.

“What about him?” asked Ethan with eyes flickering about, 
searching for signs of danger.

“He’s dead,” replied Nicole unassumingly. Ethan simply said with 
a shrug:

“Godspeed then.”

“You’re going mad, aren’t you?” she replied, breathing with 
evident difficulty. Ethan’s stare wandered a couple of men who 
were eying both of them intently.gathered outside. His voice was 
vexed, weary and coarse:

“For the last time, I know about the fake body. I know you’re not 
CIA, because I checked. What I don’t know is why you’re so hell 
bent on making me think Andy’s dead. And I need answers, love. 
Not any more of your bullshit, answers.”

A heavy silence ensued, while two of the younger looking men made 
a few steps towards the hut. Nicole motioned them to stop with 
her only free hand. She breathed deeply and sighed before asking 
Ethan:

“Could we do this in a more civilized fashion?”

“I like it just the way it is, crass and sharp. Who do you really 
work for?” he asked her, every word out of his mouth seeping with 
controlled anger.

“Who do you think?”

“The french, right?”

She nodded silently. Ethan noticed the men were taking slow steps 
towards the hut. He eyed them vehemently and they stopped moving. 
He went on:

“Why do you want me to think Andy’s dead so badly? Is he your 
hostage? Is that how you got hold of his things?”

Ethan was practically shouting while Nicole remained calm. She 
told him then, “Andy is my husband. He’s not anybody’s hostage.” 
Ethan scoffed, cringing his face and looking disgusted.

“I said no more bullshit,” he told her and twisted her arm to the 
point of breaking.

“That much was true!” she cried in anguish. The men were closing 
in on them with deliberate steps. Ethan jerked the blade no more 
than an inch before the men stood still. He asked her with 
urgency in his voice:

“What else was true then?”

“Not much,” she replied, shaking her head imperceptibly.

“Where is he then?” said Ethan through gritted teeth. 

“I can’t tell you that.”

“What’s going to stop me from cutting your throat then?”

Nicole grinned and said: “I didn’t think you had a penchant for 
being so bloodthirsty. They might though.”

“Will they now?” he said, ran his tongue over his lips and eyed 
them warily, pressing the knife’s sharp edge against her throat 
to the point it cut her skin. She flinched and a few drops of 
blood smudged the knife. She said with cool determination:

“They’re Likembe’s sons.”

“Oh, bugger me. I guess I’ll have to take my chances with the 
bastards then.” 

“Christ! Adopted sons,” she cried out as she felt the knife tear 
another small cut.

“I’m way past caring right now. Where is Andy?” 

“Listen, we can work this out, if you’re willing to let me go!” 
said Nicole, her cool manners giving way to an attitude of 
mounting panic. Ethan looked at the three young men still 
standing outside, ready to have a go at him at the flick of an 
eye.

“I thought the only reason they haven’t jumped on me now is the 
sharp instrument at your throat,” he said and grinned at them 
nodding at the knife. They remained calmed but poised, not the 
least troubled by the small fires in the distance and the mayhem 
from the crowd of people.

“I can reason with them,” said Nicole trying to sound convincing 
to little effect. Ethan shook his head and let out a little laugh 
before saying:

“You’re trying to swing this around, aren’t you? No joy. For the 
last bloody time, where’s Andy?”

“I can’t tell you, because I don’t really know where exactly!”

“More lies, at a very inopportune time. If this is how it’s going 
to be, I think I’ll have to take my chances anyway,” he said and 
traced the knife around her throat in the mockery of a slow, 
ominous ritual. The man closest to them seemed ready to plunge 
forward but hesitated when a shrill sound like a shriek signaled 
a jet passing over them. Within moments the night lit up with 
plumes of fire nearby. The light illuminated their faces with the 
modest warmth of a candle. The cries of some unlucky few were 
dulled by the falling rain.

“Jesus! I can tell you were they hit the caravan!” she cried in 
fear, the words coming out of her mouth of their own volition.

“Some random point in the map? I may be half Scottish, but I’m 
not a complete idiot.”

“You’ve got a knife against my throat and you still can’t believe 
a thing I’m saying!”

“No reason to act surprised, love,” Ethan told her and lightly 
tapped the knife against her throat. She breathed in deeply 
before she spoke again:

“What if I walk you over there? It’s not very far from here, it’s 
some ways over to the west, near the river.”

Ethan frowned. He remained silent for a moment.

“The Niger?” he asked then, and Nicole replied by simply nodding. 
He puckered his lips and said then:

“Hands tied behind your back. Legs tied with a foot-long rope. 
That means no running. And these boys better leave first.”

“Fine,” she said, feeling the knife around her throat relax only 
to the point it did not cut directly into her skin. She asked him 
then with a weary sigh: “And then, will you release me?”

“I’ll think about that when I find Andy. Good enough?”

She nodded lightly and turned her head sharply, establishing an 
uneasy eye contact with Ethan after quite some time.

“How can I trust you?” she said with a furrowed brow.

“I should be the one asking that,” replied Ethan with an 
expressionless, sombre face, his features strict and unyielding.

“Alright, let me talk to them,” she said as the storm continued 
unabated.

She spoke in Igbo, her sentences small and curt but fluent. Ethan 
couldn’t understand half of it though; he suddenly wished he had 
taken a much more serious interest in learning the language when 
he had had the chance.

Ethan was focused on the two men, eying them intently. They 
seemed about to say something but had second thoughts all of a 
sudden. The men looked at each other, and then said something 
that seemed to make Nicole uneasy. She asked them something 
repeatedly in a nervous voice, but they didn’t answer.

Ethan’s instinct told him things were about to take an even 
stranger turn, and then the deafening noise of a jet flying-by 
low blanketed every sound. Moments later a grove no more than a 
hundred feet away erupted in flames. A wall of fire rose upwards 
through the jungle and bathed everyone in light, when finally the 
scattered anti-aircraft guns opened fire, dashes of tracer fire 
going up in the night sky from seemingly random locations.

And then, through the corner of his eye Ethan saw a rising shadow 
on the remains of the hut’s walls. The two men lunged forward and 
Nicole realised who they were aiming for and shouted:

“Behind you!”

Ethan was already sweeping about with one leg extended, blindly 
trying to trip the assailant from behind. As he did so, he let go 
of Nicole, ducked furiously and brought the knife on his other 
hand. He barely had time to see a tall, burly man in fatigues 
before he was dragged down to the ground.

Nicole had barely enough time to kick one of her now former 
comrades hard in the face, before rolling halfway towards the 
hut. The man screamed in pain and instinctively tried to stem the 
bleeding from his ruined nose. The other one staggered for a 
moment before rushing to Nicole.

Ethan grappled with the man in uniform only a few feet away from 
Nicole. A hasty jab with his knife missed and hit nothing but 
muddied dirt near the man’s ear. He then felt something hit him 
in the face with the force of a brick. His head throbbed with 
pain and he felt his skull was about to explode. When his eyes 
could focus again, he realised the man had simply hit him with a 
powerful right. He heard Nicole struggling but couldn’t do 
anything about that for the moment; the brute that had assaulted 
him rolled over him with all the weight of his body and pinned 
him down.

His knife hand became free for barely a moment and Ethan made it 
count. He put as much power into his strike with his arm as the 
grappling allowed, and felt the blade go deep. The man on top of 
him grunted and placed both of his massive hands on Ethan’s 
throat; he began to choke him.

Ethan felt warm blood pour down on his hand and mingle with the 
thick rain. He heard dulled grunting noises and shouts from 
Nicole, as he felt a crushing pressure around his windpipe and 
blood rising up in his head and ears. He threw another jab with 
his knife that didn’t pierce through; it met with bone. Then 
another one, and another one, as the seconds that passed by 
seemed an endless ordeal. He couldn’t breathe or move, one hand 
flailing wildly at the man’s face with no effect, his knife hand 
all bloodied as each strike buried the blade inside the man who 
would refuse to give up or die.

He could see the man’s icy black eyes staring back at him in the 
playful light from the grove that caught on fire from the napalm 
only moments before. He saw a gleam of fury and zeal; that man 
would see to killing him first before bleeding to death. And then 
he heard a piercing shot but no cry. He felt the man buckle and 
groan, the pressure on his throat relaxing.

Ethan turned his head only slightly towards Nicole and saw her 
lying with her back on the ground, drawing the gun in her hand 
coolly towards the two men who plunged towards the gun head-first 
in a desperate attempt to stop her. The man with the ruined nose 
crumbled down first when Nicole fired next, hitting him straight 
in the chest, sending a sputter of blood flying forth in a wide 
arch.

The bulky man had little life left in him and grew weak, finally 
letting Ethan gasp for air, blood starting to circulate once 
more. Ethan pushed and shoved him aside before slithering his way 
under his body and back on his feet. He saw the last man standing 
punching Nicole hard in her face while with his other hand he was 
trying to break the wrist on her hand holding the gun.

The first few breaths hurt like hell as Ethan’s larynx expanded 
back into its normal size. He wasted no time; he didn’t know why 
they had turned on her but he knew she was all that stood between 
him and Andy and that was reason enough. He rushed him with a 
primal scream, bent forward.

The Igbo man threw a glance at him but still focused on grabbing 
the gun away from Nicole. As he lay on top of her he kicked her 
with a knee hard against her kidneys. Nicole’s screamed pierced 
through the rumbling rain; the pain was mind-numbing. She relaxed 
her grip on the gun reflexively, stretching her fingers for only 
a moment.

At that moment, Ethan was already hurtling the man on top aside, 
arching his knife for a deadly blow. As he did so, the man 
somehow flicked the gun off Nicole’s hand and tossed it into a 
pool of runny mud only a foot away. That only allowed Ethan a 
wider opening, and as they tumbled away from Nicole, Ethan’s 
knife found its way with practiced ease into the man’s heart, 
straight between his ribs.

Ethan saw the man’s puzzled expression and his vacant stare 
before he turned his head to see Nicole scrambling again towards 
the gun. She reached for it with a groan, the kick in her kidneys 
sending pulses of pain throughout her body. Ethan slipped on the 
mud before he found enough purchase to leap onto her.

As he did so, she finally grabbed the gun and breathing heavily 
brought it to bear against Ethan, who missed her for an arm’s 
reach.

“Don’t move!” she shouted above the thundering roar of the rain 
and carefully tried to stand back up on her feet.

“I won’t if you put the gun away,” Ethan managed to reply through 
heavy, pained breaths in between.

“You throw away the knife, and start running before I change my 
mind,” she said as she barely lowered her aim.

That tiny slice of time was enough for Ethan to lunge forward as 
he swiveled his torso sideways, trying to present a smaller 
target. The gun didn’t go off but a rather hollow click was 
heard; Nicole was already running away towards the burning grove 
behind them, tossing the useless gun away, and cursing:

“Merd!”

Ethan was right behind her, only two or perhaps three steps 
behind. She ran through thick brushes nimbly without looking 
back, swerving this way and that, changing direction as if 
following an unseen trail. Ethan felt he was falling behind, but 
he couldn’t risk throwing the knife at her; he had to catch up 
somehow.

In front of the the grove had turned into a smoldering ring of 
trees and bushes, the small nests of fire slowly dying away as 
rain fell and the napalm mix burned off. The stench of burned 
human flesh, an acrid, sickly sweet smell assaulted him and made 
him queasy. He kept on running, even though his lungs had started 
to burn; the gasoline fumes from the napalm, and the exertion 
from the hand-fighting were taking their toll.

Nicole leaped above small sizzling logs and pools of mud; once or 
twice she slipped and lost her footing only to regain it not a 
moment too soon, with Ethan’s hand outstretched right behind her.

Frustrated and exhausted, Ethan thought she was actually going to 
get away. He made a final push and leaped after Nicole more so in 
faith and hope; as he did so, Nicole stumbled on something on the 
ground and fell head-first on a sheet of thin slippery mud.

She tried to get up but Ethan had fallen right on top of her. She 
heard him then, breathing laboriously, probably in as much pain 
as her:

“You’re a real bitch, d’you know?” he said as he immediately 
grabbed her arms behind her back, causing her to let out a cry of 
pain.

“They thought so too, but they’re dead,” she said as she flinched 
and relaxed her body, yielding to Ethan.

“Well I’m not just anyone. I’m your brother in law, remember?” he 
said with a smirk and scrounged up his face from the terrible 
stench.

“I would’ve shot you in the leg so I could get away.”

“Good thing that priest of yours didn’t keep it fully loaded 
then. We’ll never know now, will we? Up. Up,” he said with an 
authoritative voice, urging Nicole on her feet. She saw that she 
had stumbled on a charred corpse, frozen in a bizarre stance. She 
suddenly became sick, while Ethan produced an extra pair of shoe 
laces from one his pants pockets.

“Up against that tree,” he said and pushed her, both hands 
holding her arms behind her back like grappling hooks. She 
complied almost meekly, and with his weight he pinned her against 
the trunk of a tree that hadn’t been caught in the stream of the 
napalm. He tied her just enough so that blood barely flowed and 
then grabbed her from an arm, before leading her back towards the 
church.

“Where are you taking me?” she asked, exhaustion trimming her 
voice.

“To Andy.” he said flatly.

“I told you, there’s no way we could-”

Ethan interrupted her with a violent tug:

“Shut up and walk. We’ll be at the rendezvous.”

“There’s no-”

He turned her around and grabbed her face, his words coming out 
harsh and accusing:

“Maybe you’re thicker than you look. Those numbers back there in 
that radio transmission, those are coordinates.”

“That’s ridiculous,” she said sniffing sorely.

“Is it now? What about your so called friends?”

“There are no friends in this business,” she said as Ethan let go 
of her face.

“So, let’s make this a family affair. Shall we?” he said and 
pushed Nicole towards the church, as the rain continued to fall.

The bonds that tie

It was almost dawn. They were walking slowly, Nicole leading the 
way while a few feet behind her Ethan traced the tiny path in 
front of them, mindful of his surroundings. His eyes darted this 
way and that with a nervousness compounded by the lack of sleep. 
Each tree, bush and grove ahead seemed to him perfect places for 
an ambush, but none carried the tell-tale signs. Nature all 
around them continued to be ever present; the plentiful cries of 
small monkeys and night-birds mingled with the brushing up of 
leaves from smaller rodents and the occasional snake or lizard.

The wet ground teemed with rotting vegetation; it was the rainy 
season after all. It made walking an unpleasant experience, since 
the earth below one’s feet shifted, the feeling of mushy 
undergrowth around one’s ankles weighing on every step. Ethan had 
learned his way around such marshy terrain but that did not make 
it agreeable at all.

A distinctive shrieking cry pierced the air around them and Ethan 
felt a sudden swoosh of air. His eyes barely caught the glimpse 
of a bird sweeping up and away into the rosy red sky with some 
small prey wriggling in its feet.

“Bloody thing caught me off guard,” said Ethan mostly to himself.

“That’s a harrier,” said Nicole

“A what?”

“A kind of hawk. Weird though; that was an African marsh harrier.”

“This is a swamp,” said Ethan and gestured around them, prodding 
Nicole with one hand to keep moving, while all the while he kept 
looking around, as if waiting for more of the damnable birds, or 
perhaps something really dangerous to make an appearance.

“It’s a forest,” said Nicole as she minded her steps through a 
thick, rustling brush. “Obofia forest, actually. It’s more of a 
swamp, granted, but it’s not a marsh. Marshes don’t have trees,” 
she said, with evident enmity in her voice. 

“I’m not interested in natural science. You’ve kept your mouth 
shut about Andy, so all you’re useful for is getting me to this 
rendezvous of yours.”

“What rendezvous?” she asked in a provocatively nonchalant 
manner, as if they were taking a stroll through the woods.

Ethan paused for a moment and yanked the rope that bound Nicole’s 
hands behind her beck, signaling her to stop.

“Look at me!” he said hoarsely, his voice rife with indignation. 
She did not comply, but rather stood there, trying to straighten 
out her back, sore from all the walking with hands tied so 
uncomfortably.

“Damn you woman, look at me!” said Ethan and grabbed her chin, 
forcing her to turn around. Nicole was staring at him with a 
cold, icy gaze fit to petrify a man. It was calculated anger; a 
precisely tuned show of hate.

“Do I look that much of a fool? Do I?” shouted Ethan, his bottled 
up anger and frustration finally welling up.

Nicole didn’t make a sound. She continued to look at him as if he 
were a mildly irritating curiosity, feeding his anger.

“I’m just waiting to spring whatever trap your friends have put 
in place. Then maybe we can arrange some sort of swap.”

“With Andy? You think, he’s my captive? ’Our’ captive?” she said 
sniggering on the brink of uncontrollable laughter. Ethan pulled 
out his knife and put the blade against her nose. His voice was 
somehow deformed, barely recognisable when he said with a 
strangely glazed look:

“Do you know the Sharia?”

“Islamic law,” replied Nicole, unfazed.

“I’ve heard some Fulani men talk about it. Do you know what they 
do to women who shame their family up in the north?”

“I’m family to you now? How kind of you,” she said mockingly. 
Ethan grabbed her mouth and told her while still holding up the 
knife near her face, trembling from the effort to control 
himself.

“They cut their fucking noses off and stone them to death.”

“Go on then, have your way with me! Isn’t that what you’d like?” 
she said with a taunting, yet venomous voice.

“Dear God, I just might!” cried Ethan and threw her down on the 
wet, mushy ground.

“I didn’t think you were such an ignorant, stupid brute until 
now.”

“Well, it never occurred to me you’d be such a double-crossing 
little cunt, but that’s just how things are!”

“I was just following orders. You’re a soldier, you should know 
better.”

“We’ll see when we get there. Up on your feet,” said Ethan and 
pulled on the rope wrapped around her waist. She planted her feet 
and managed to stand upright. She looked at Ethan through a lock 
of ruffled hair, soaked in sweat and said shaking her head.

“Like a fucking mule, huh?”

“I should’ve taped that mouth of yours. Now walk. I hope we’re 
not late for the festivities.”

“Always the English gentleman. It’s right over that bluff. I told 
you-”

“Right. Now shut up and start walking because I can be very 
unkind when I have to. I’ve done it before, I’ll do it again.”

“For Queen and Country?” she said smiling in front of him. He 
then closed his eyes and a moment later punched her in the 
stomach. Nicole let out a grumbling sound and bent down on her 
knees before she threw up her half-eaten dinner from the night 
before. Ethan yanked the rope and she grudgingly obliged, 
starting to walk after she gave him a wary, almost curious 
lopsided look.

“For you, I’d do it for the fucking laughs. Move,” said Ethan and 
rattled his jaw before starting right behind her, the rope on one 
hand and the knife on the other.

The bluff up ahead was rather steep. The rain from the night 
before had turned the dirt into slippery, thin mud. Nicole could 
find little purchase using solely her feet. She grunted as she 
fought to stand upright and walk at the same time. She almost 
fell down a couple of times but Ethan was right behind her, 
holding her steady whenever the need arose, for no other simpler 
reason than she would drag him down the slope with her if she 
fell.

The sun came right above the horizon when they settled on the top 
of the bluff to catch their breath for a moment. As they both 
drew in deep breaths, Ethan looked at Nicole derisively and said:

“That’s not a bluff. That was a proper bloody hill.”

Nicole gave him a rudimentary nod and squatted, trying to flex 
the aching muscles on her back and her legs. From where they 
stood, a gleam of light came off a thin strand of murky water 
that flowed lazily to the southwest. Ethan’s gaze followed the 
motions of the water for a moment, and then started surveying the 
brown and green mass of vegetation in front of him. Most of the 
land was covered in mangroves and oil palms.

There were small groves of flat, brownish ground that dotted the 
landscape. His eyes caught a glimpse of one such grove where he 
saw what he’d been searching for so long: a large tent, with a 
red cross inside a white roundel painted on top. Around it lay 
scattered crates and sacks. A Land Rover lay near the estuary, 
burned to a crisp, all the way down to the chassis.

He suddenly felt his hopes rising, and his fears subsiding. When 
he asked Nicole though, it was with reticence in his voice:

“Is that it? Was that Andy’s caravan? Out here, right next to 
that muddy river?”

“That was the one. That’s the Orashi, one of Niger’s streams.”

“Come on then. Let’s see whether your people are going to be here 
on time. I just might get my hands on something useful first.”

“You’ve turned paranoid.”

“Better than turn up dead. Move,” he said and Nicole complied. 
The slope on this side of the bluff wasn’t as big, and going 
downhill was a lot easier. The sun was already above the 
treetops, and the heat was building up fast. Ethan wiped his 
forehead and asked Nicole, while she navigated through the thick, 
swampy bushes:

“Their caravan was hit on the Biafran side.”

“Yes,” she replied with a flat, indifferent tone.

Ethan looked at her with a deep-seated frown, before he almost 
spat the words:

“What the fuck was a Red Cross caravan doing this far down the 
River in Biafra? There’s not a fucking soul around!”

“There is Okumu, down south. About 3 miles from here,” she said, 
roughly pointing to the south with her head. They kept moving 
towards the grove, the morning sounds of the jungle echoing their 
every step.

“There’s a road for Okumu. What the bloody hell where they doing 
in the middle of this god-awful jungle?”

Nicole swung her head around, gazing at the surrounding trees as 
if they were on a sightseeing jungle trek. She let out a small, 
polite laugh before she replied with a lilting, unusually 
fresh-sounding voice:

“Can’t you smell it?”

“Smells like a rotten jungle alright. What’s to like?”

“There’s more to it than the rot. It is essentially the same 
though.”

“The same with what.”

“Gas. Swamp gas. Methane.”

Ethan took a moment and stood still, holding the rope firmly. It 
became taut soon enough, and Nicole turned around to complain 
when he shushed her, the knife still firmly held in his hand. He 
was sniffing the air, his gaze wandering at the ground around his 
boots. His head leaned to the left and to the right for a few 
more moments.

“What are you doing?” asked Nicole.

“I’m trying to use my senses,” he said calmly in contrast to his 
earlier demeanor. After a few seconds, he told her:

“They’re here, aren’t they?”

“I’m telling you, there is no rendezvous,” she said stressing the 
last word with a purely french accent, while her gaze flickered 
to somewhere behind Ethan for the barest moment.

That was enough to warn Ethan someone was behind him. He 
instinctively swung around, letting go of the rope that held 
Nicole and blindly aiming the blade of the knife for a low stab 
in the leg. As he did so he had time enough to shout, “You cunt!” 
but he wasn’t quick enough to avoid whatever it was that 
connected violently with his head.

The world around him flashed intensely white as he staggered, and 
in the blink of an eye everything went dark as his body met the 
soft ground. The last thing that went through his mind before the 
lights went out was that thing Onko from his last scout team had 
told him in their last drill: he was growing soft.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

He opened his eyes to a room filled with darkness, except for a 
narrow slit of light from the door. The air was stale and damp; 
it smelled of oil and rust. Ethan’s eyes adjusted to the dim 
light and looked around; he could barely make out the rough edges 
of crates, vanes and pipes pouring out from the wall next to the 
door. A sharp smell assaulted his senses suddenly; cordite.

He was lying down with his back against the wall. He flexed the 
sore muscles on his feet, and something weighing them down. He 
heard the sound of rustling chains; he was in shackles. Whoever 
these people were, they weren’t taking any chances.

The back of his head brushed against the wall; the concrete was 
coarse but warm. The temperature was tolerably hot, but the 
humidity felt like it could choke him. Surprisingly enough 
though, he was still alive. He smiled bitterly to himself; the 
thought that he had taken the risk to follow Nicole into a trap 
didn’t trouble him as much as the fact that he had actually 
fallen for it like an amateur. Whatever would happen next, he 
felt so far away from ever finding Andy again. Right about the 
time when he thought he was so close. When he knew his brother 
was alive.

His thoughts were then suddenly interrupted when he heard voices 
from outside and the clanging sound of boots on a metal floor. He 
could hear two male voices exchanging a few words in French. He 
then heard the sound of a lighter, followed by the echo of steps 
moving away. The guard on the door had been changed. Whatever 
kind of facility he was being kept prisoner, there seemed to be 
lots of Nicole’s friends.

They had taken away his watch, his boots and naturally his knife 
and Browning. They’d been thorough enough to search his socks and 
rip the pockets out of his shirt and trousers. In a perhaps 
strange bout of decency, they hadn’t left him naked.

The small storage room gave away few clues about his whereabouts; 
it could be underground, or in some old, disused building. 
Wherever he was though, there was ample humidity but there was 
nothing special about that. He could still be somewhere near the 
river, or in a remote part of the jungle. Perhaps he was being 
held somewhere in the Delta, further south. He decided he should 
wait; someone would bring him some food and water eventually. If 
they wanted him dead, Nicole had had ample opportunities before.

His thoughts wandered then to James. Everything suddenly seemed 
to rest on him then. When he came looking for him and Ethan was 
nowhere to be found, what would he do? What could James really 
do, other than perhaps explain to the service that there was a 
bloody good reason for being declared AWOL, that he really was 
missing somewhere in the jungle, not knowing if he’d ever return? 

Without knowing exactly where he was, and with no clue about how 
long he’d been out, the landing zone could be days away. And even 
if by some stroke of luck or genius that he couldn’t really 
bother to believe in at that time, even if he did somehow escape, 
there was no telling whether he’d on time. No, he corrected 
himself. If they’d be there in time. Him and Andy.

Because if he was being held captive in this place, there was a 
good chance Andy would be around as well. Unless they had a whole 
network of caches, outposts and storage facilities made out of 
concrete, he could very well be in the next room.

Outside, he heard someone approaching once more. The steps 
sounded different than before; more quiet, less pronounced. 
Someone with a smaller, lighter build. Once the sound of steps 
stopped, he half-expected whoever was outside to have a talk, 
perhaps a routine check. He heard nothing of the sort, but 
instead the sound of heavy metal locks clanging and bars lifting 
and grating could be heard. Soon the door opened and let light 
shine through brilliantly. The sudden contrast between darkness 
and light made Ethan flinch away. 

He then blinked furiously for a while before taking a look at the 
door with some reticence. A shapely shadow obscured some of the 
light. When he looked up, he saw Nicole holding a key-chain in 
hand. She then pushed the door wide open to reveal the form of 
the guard, an Igbo by the looks of him. 

What had at first looked like a bath of shiny and brilliant light 
revealed itself to be nothing more than a sickly yellowish light 
bulb. Nicole simply nodded and the guard stood behind her holding 
his rifle with both hands, the butt of the stock extended, ready 
to smash a couple of bones if the need arose. They were indeed 
handling him very carefully, even though he had no great 
misconceptions about his place there and then.

They seemed to be communicating well enough without words.

“Good. You’re finally up,” said Nicole with heartening approval.

“How long was I out?” asked Ethan and cleared his throat.

“You’ll have to do better than that, Captain. Stand up now,” she 
said in a mildly authoritative but not unkind way.

“Am I being held as a prisoner of war?” asked Ethan rather 
dejectedly.

Nicole grinned widely as she was searching for the right key in 
the chain.

“The Geneva accords?” she asked and shrugged. “There’s no reason 
for that, we’re all civilized here.” she said and looked straight 
at Ethan before asking him, “Aren’t we?”

Ethan repeated himself in the same monotone voice as before:

“Am I being held-”

“For God’s sake, just stand up and let me unlock the shackles.”

“I thought these were meant for me,” said Ethan with an 
expression of mock naivety, shaking his head and raising his 
brow.

“That was just protocol,” replied Nicole as she bent down with 
the key in hand.

“So I’m not a prisoner?” 

“That will depend,” said Nicole standing upright again, and 
tossing the shackles away.

“On what exactly?”

“On your answer,” she replied flatly. The cold, calculating stare 
on her eyes was hint enough that she was deadly serious about 
whatever the question was. Ethan stood on his heels and 
stretched; he felt his blood circulating more freely now, and 
flexed his arms and legs. The guard then made a sudden motion 
towards him that was only interrupted by Nicole’s palm. The look 
on the Igbo guard told Ethan that he should stick to simply 
walking for the time. 

“What is the question?”

“Let’s have dinner first, shall we? We need to talk some things 
over.”

“What about Andy? Are we talking about him?” he asked, rather 
miffed. Nicole’s answer came with a thin, gracious smile.

“Him too, I assure you. Your boots are right outside,” she said 
and nodded while the guard cast his eyes on Ethan like a bird of 
prey.

Ethan went outside to put on his boots. There he saw another two 
men standing guard on a small corridor to the left. One was 
having a smoke, while the other one was chewing on some leaves. 
Both wore a mix and match of fatigues and loose shirts, 
green-hued and quite appropriate for the jungle. These men looked 
like irregulars but they had the air of a trained soldier.

While Ethan put on his boots, Nicole gave the men a nod and made 
a hand signal. They both nodded, took a last look on Ethan, 
turned the other way and left. Behind Ethan stood the Igbo, 
safely a couple of paces behind. 

None of Nicole’s men had spoken a word or asked a question. That 
meant they’d been together for some time; whatever these people 
were, they didn’t seem like a rag-tag crew of rebels on the run, 
looking for some quick, hard exchange. They looked like a unit; a 
cohesive, well-disciplined military unit.

“After you,” said Nicole and pushed him gently down the corridor. 
Ethan started walking towards what appeared to be daylight coming 
down through a shaft. This then was a small underground complex. 
He walked past two corridors that seemed to turn after a few 
yards. He knew that every piece of detail might save his life 
later on, even if Nicole was trying to convince him all this 
looked like some sort of terrible misunderstanding.

He didn’t seem to care though about using a mask or hood so as 
not to divulge sensitive info about their facility. Whether or 
not they knew he was trying to put every detail in memory, they 
were either too sloppy or overconfident. And these were both 
qualities that never paid off.

The corridor had a low ceiling and was wide enough for three, 
maybe even four people. They passed through a part of the 
corridor that was littered with mechanical equipment, tools, 
rods, and all sorts of metal boxes with screens and dials. 
Electronics equipment from the looks of it, probably 
communications but not some sort of radio he was familiar with.

As they came closer to the open hatch that led to the ground he 
could feel a waft of fresh air. Warm though it was against his 
face, it was welcome change. As he stepped on to the ladder, he 
could see the guards waiting for them outside, one rifle aimed 
straight at Ethan and the other one at the hip, searching for a 
threat from their perimeter.

Once he was out and on his feet, he could see nothing other than 
a wide, frothing river with small isles dotted in its flow. There 
was a small fishing hut build right on the sandy estuary, and a 
couple of sand-blasted boats. Right behind him he heard Nicole’s 
feet tousle the thick grass. She had taken off her shoes, holding 
them in one hand.

“It’s this way,” she said and Ethan turned to see a small 
two-story mansion sitting nicely between a hillock of mangroves 
and a small farm of oil palms. Built in early French colonial 
style, it looked impressively well-maintained and almost 
picturesque.

He noticed more guards, two on the first floor and two more on 
patrol around the farm. These were dressed in plain, simple 
peasant clothes, practical for the heat and unassuming. They 
didn’t carry rifles, but he noticed they all had a machete 
sheathed across their backs. One of them carried a handgun, its 
large grip protruding from one of his pockets.

“Don’t be shy,” said Nicole and this time led the way through the 
front yard, where various bushes had been planted but left to 
grow wildly. Ethan could identify some; wild strawberries and 
what looked like very similar to cranberries. 

A gentle breeze carried an obnoxious smell that reminded Ethan of 
the Obofia forest, really rotten jungle and swamps. They must’ve 
been close then, he realised.

“The Orashi,” said Ethan who stopped and pointed towards the 
river.

“No, that’s the Otamiri,” said Nicole half-way on the steps 
leading to the front porch.

“Another stream?” asked Ethan with curiosity.

“No, that’s the Niger alright,” she replied with the hint of a 
smile in her voice.

“Why do they call it that?” asked Ethan and then heard a strange 
sounding voice that he hadn’t heard in a long time, and thought 
he might never hear again.

“That’s Igbo for ’river’,” said the voice and when Ethan turned 
around he saw a tall man, wearing glasses, his hair greyed out. 
He hadn’t seen him in years, but Ethan knew it was him alright. 
It was Andy.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

“I don’t understand,” said Ethan with a strange, quietly 
disconcerted voice. He was staring at a delicious looking sliced 
melon, and nothing around him seemed even remotely possible a few 
hours ago. Andy exchanged a few looks with Nicole who kept her 
own council. Her eyes remained fixed on every little nuance on 
Ethan’s face. Andy smiled and sipped some of his Earl Gray as if 
he’d been saying nothing out of the ordinary.

“I don’t think I can understand,” continued Ethan while his gaze 
wandered for a few moments to the peaceful river, the lush 
mangroves and the thick bushes surrounding the little mansion. It 
was almost idyllic, aside from the fact that the single largest 
store of ammunition and weaponry on Biafran soil was comfortably 
hidden away beneath. Andy took a slice of melon in hand and bit 
into the ripe insides, juices running down his well-trimmed 
beard. He talked with his mouth full. He was trying to chew, 
swallow and wipe his mouth at the same time:

“You see.. It’s easy if you do think about it.. It’s all about, 
well.. Money, really.”

Ethan had his arms crossed and an incredulous-looking face when 
he pointed at Andy and asked, near the point of laughter: “You’re 
telling me, you’re working for the French?” 

“Have been for some time, actually,” replied Andy and had another 
sip of tea. Nicole was laying back on her chair, barely making a 
noise but looking at both men intently, having a cigarette. 
Ethan’s eyes widened and he sat upright, agitated. He sounded 
urgent, troubled when he asked Andy:

“How? I mean.. Since bloody when?”

“Ever since the medical school,” he replied flatly, looking at 
his brother with a peremptory glance. Ethan erupted into shouts 
and struck the table with one hand. 

“Fucking hell! For God’s sake Andy, money? That’s it?” 

Andy shook his head and told Ethan before cracking a smile: “Not 
really, no. A shitload of money. Makes all the difference, 
doesn’t it?”

“I can’t bloody well believe my ears! My own little brother, a 
fucking spy for the Frenchies. I can’t see why it happened, but 
I’m damn sure that cunt was involved right from the start. And I 
do mean involved. Right, love?” said Ethan staring Nicole with 
angry, hard disdain. She shot him a cool, neutral look and simply 
went on smoking.

“She did recruit me, true enough. But not in bed Ethan,” Andy 
replied with a hint of exasperation.

“Street corner then?” said Ethan with sharp vehemence. Andy waved 
a finger at Ethan and got up, started to pace about. He talked 
vibrantly, making excited hand gestures .

“This isn’t at all about us, Ethan. There’s a big picture here 
that you’re simply failing to see.”

Ethan’s reply sounded morose. His eyes looked sad beyond doubt. 
He told Andy: “Aye. All I see is my brother has pissed on 
everything I thought he stood for ’cause of a french cunt and a 
bag full of promises.”

Andy closed his eyes and barely cocked his head sideways. It took 
some effort to maintain his coolness, but there was strain in his 
voice when he told Ethan:

“Please stop calling my wife - whom I may remind you is your 
sister-in-law - a cunt.”

Ethan put on a mocking smile and said with an unusually mellow, 
low-keyed voice, “Well I’m not all that happy about the two of 
you, don’t mind me saying.”

He paused to look at Nicole and Andy who were focused on his 
words, before adding with mounding aggravation, “This isn’t 
exactly a gentleman’s club, so let’s dispense with the fucking 
pleasantries already! Why the fuck are you telling me all this 
now?”

Andy shot him an accusing glance before telling him sternly:

“I thought you might want to know. If you had, you might not have 
dragged your ass alongside hers all through the fucking war, the 
bloody jungle and the dead bodies now, would you?”

“I thought you might be still alive! And bugger me, I was too 
bloody right for comfort!”

“Jesus Christ Ethan, you could’ve buried me and walked away 
without having to step into this fucking operation!”

“You could’ve told me for fuck’s sake! We’re brothers!” shouted 
Ethan, causing a few of the guards to momentarily focus their 
attention to the three of them. Nicole waved them to not take 
notice, but her face gave her away; she was glued to every word, 
her cigarette having turned into ash.

“Could I now? Just pick up a phone and tell you I’m a french spy? 
That’s plain stupid in so many ways,” said Andy, shaking his 
head.

“You’d think the difficult part was breaking it to me,” replied 
Ethan, sporting a rare look of hurt in his eyes. Andy sat down 
once more, took a few breaths and told his brother in earnest:

“You haven’t written or called ever since the funeral, Ethan. And 
that was a long time ago, or were you too bloody drunk to care?”

Ethan’s face twisted into a weird grin, before he put his palms 
on his face and sighed. He then told Andy, even though he was 
looking at the floor between the two of them:

“You don’t know what it’s like, Andy. You don’t fucking know.”

“You’d be surprised, chum,” replied Andy in all seriousness.

“I bloody well am already, mate,” said Ethan as he looked up to 
face his brother.

“You should’ve stuck to your ideals, Ethan; don’t give a flying 
fuck. And I gave you chances mate, I bloody well did,” he said as 
he shook his head. Ethan’s voice became suddenly inquisitive:

“You mean that poor bastard’s body?”

“The body, and fucking Adu as well. The fucking priest, for 
crying out loud!” said Andy angrily as he tried to cut another 
piece of melon.

Nicole then suddenly looked at Andy as if she’d been shocked by 
electricity. She didn’t bother to keep her voice calm when she 
spoke next:

“Adu? You told Adu to flip the bargain without telling me about 
it?”

“Well I’d thought you’d improvise!” said Andy in an equally 
high-toned fashion.

“Improvise? I had to put a hole in his head! All this for what, 
Andy? A family reunion?” she said, leaning forward from her chair 
and gesturing at all three of them. Her eyes though remained 
fixed on Ethan who was wearing a surprised frown.

“Well I had to stop him now, didn’t I?” said Andy almost 
apologetically.

“Why not just let him be then? Get lost in the jungle, mugged, 
get shot at? Why did I have to baby-sit your older brother?”

“It was part of the contingency planning. He’s not as daft as you 
make it look, actually.”

“Well he’s certainly not a shining example, either,” she said and 
lit another cigarette.

“It’s good to feel appreciated, really,” said Ethan with a look 
that could stab a man in the heart.

“The point I’m trying to make is you’re a persistent bastard and 
you wouldn’t give up,” Andy told his brother while he turned and 
looked at Nicole before telling her, waving his arms about him:

“With all this bad timing, I thought it was a blessing in 
disguise that you simply ran onto him.”

“Until I had to shoot Adu,” she said with a look of ice cold 
anger in her eyes, openly using her french accent.

“The situation is still salvageable,” said Andy and exchanged a 
few knowing glances with Nicole. After some quiet deliberation 
she finally yielded and nodded, throwing her hands in the air. 
Andy looked at Ethan with a frowned, sombre gaze.

“You wouldn’t give up. She would, but not you.” He then 
half-grinned and asked Ethan:

“How would you like to work for the French Intelligence?”

“You’ve gone barmy, haven’t you?” said Ethan in a stunned, almost 
childish voice:

“I’m not joking Ethan.”

“How can you possibly ask me such a thing?” he said and shrugged 
uncomfortably.

“I told you this wouldn’t work,” said Nicole with a scoff.

“That’s only because you’re not privy to some matters,” replied 
Andy and motioned Ethan with a hand: “Let’s go inside.”

“Andy. Non,” said Nicole with emphasis as a cloud of smoke 
escaped her nostrils violently. 

“I’m sure he’ll understand,” replied Andy, nodding.

“I love you Andy, I really do, but I can’t understand what the 
hell it is you’ve turned into,” said Ethan with a quavering 
voice.

“Please, indulge me.”

Ethan breathed deeply before he got up and Andy led the way into 
the mansion, while Nicole followed silently behind, her face a 
wary frown.

The inside of the mansion was decorated in classic early-colonial 
French style, naturally including an oversized chandelier. 
Intricate, expensive looking vases and crystal glassware 
showcases could be seen on either side of a large hallway. Louis 
XV furniture and large portraits of family members filled in the 
living room; every corner was designed to instill a sense of 
luxury, and money. Even the floors were made of high-quality 
spotless wooden planks, polished and flaring even in the evening 
light. The tapestry was an odd mix of geometric shapes and 
fleurs-de-lis.

“Pretty posh, isn’t it? It used to belong to some French trader 
from Port Harcourt,” said Andy casually.

“So now you’re into real estate? My God, Andy! Us, working for 
the French!” cried Ethan incredulously, flapping his arms about 
him. 

“It’s not as bad as working for the British,” replied Andy 
without emotion.

“I can’t bloody believe we are having this discussion. Especially 
in front of someone who tried to kill me. Did you order her to do 
it?”

Nicole promptly cut in and said with a cool professional voice: “
I simply tried to shoot you in the leg. If we had wanted you 
dead..” she let her voice trail off, shrugged and smiled 
disconcertingly.

“That’s true enough. You’ll soon see for yourself, Ethan. Nicole, 
if you please,” said Andy and motioned vaguely towards a nearby 
wall.

Nicole stood idle for a moment and looked at Andy with anxious 
exasperation, her eyes glistening with intensity.

“Please,” said Andy and for a moment there looked like a 
vulnerable, fragile man. Nicole sighed and moved towards a small 
library case. She deftly reached behind it with one hand, while 
she pressed on the wall with the other. A faint clicking sound 
was heard and a small section of wall turned into a door 
suddenly. A cement staircase appeared which led to a badly lit 
basement; Nicole ushered them in with an expressionless face.

“Apres vous,” she said flatly.

Andy once again led the way down, with Nicole always on the back. 
As they descended, the air became more damp and cold. Ethan 
noticed it wasn’t stale, which meant this place was in regular 
use. At the bottom of the stairs they reached a wide basement 
with a low ceiling. Andy turned the lights on and the shadowy 
walls turned into a maze of maps, notes, and reports. The rest of 
the basement was filled with neatly stacked crates. On the far 
wall there were two large radio sets and a large map of the 
Delta, complete with cloth-connected pins and photos.

“This is our center of operations in Biafra. It’s not much to 
look at, but it gets the job done. Well, almost.”

“One of our centers of operations,” added Nicole coldly.

“Well, yes. Certainly. Never put your eggs in one basket, right?”

“Why are you doing this, Andy? In my mind, you were out here 
keeping people from getting killed,” said Ethan with a voice full 
of sadness, soft yet crackling. He shook his head and searched 
for Andy’s eyes. when they met, Andy smiled disarmingly and said:

“But I am. I’m trying to end this war. End the suffering.”

“In favor of the French, no less. Do they have you thinking 
you’re Robin Hood or something?”

“That’s one distorted, romantic view of things. What do you 
really know about this war, Ethan?”

“It’s not that different from the rest now, is it? All I need to 
know is I got sent down here in the first place because Her 
Majesty thought all this messy affair is bad for business.”

“Which is exactly what it has to look like. Because it’s actually 
pure gold in business terms. Never mind about the ethnic, racial, 
and religious differences; people might have been throwing sticks 
and stones at each other over that crap but it was always some 
greedy bastard behind it all.”

“I saw the mass tombs up north. That was no bullshit, I can 
assure you.”

“One always needs some kind of scenery, props, to put on a show. 
Why did the Biafrans so eagerly and radically demand to become 
independent all of a sudden?”

“Because they’re a completely different people. I’ve trained 
Yoruba and Fulani men, and they all look down on the Igbo as 
slaves, underlings, the lowliest of the low. They’ve been doing 
that since before we even came to Nigeria.”

“So how come the slave, the one who is being constantly beaten 
down and trodden - the one who’s been conditioned to a life of 
misery,poverty and bad luck out here in the southeast - how the 
fuck does he chin-up and gives everyone the finger?”

“Because the Brits are gone and he’s had enough.”

“No, Ethan. Because the French whisper in their ear and show them 
the money lying underground. Because there’s still large fields 
that haven’t even been drilled, much less taken real advantage 
of. Because there’s still a lot of pipe-lining to do in these 
blasted swamps and rainforests. Because the Delta is like a 
bloody sponge soaked in oil, waiting for someone to suck it dry. 
And with a little help, lots of cries and propaganda, some 
bloodshed and a bit of luck, the French government could secure 
what might possibly prove to be the largest supply of oil in 
Africa. Without all that crap in Algiers.”

“You’re saying the whole war’s been staged?”

“I’m saying that when your eyes and ears are open, you can learn 
a lot about people. And then you can put a few ideas in their 
heads, make some promises, show a little bit of good faith and 
then you can start working with them.”

“Is that how they got to you?”

“You’re thinking I’ve been fooled, haven’t you? Ethan, when this 
is over and done for, I’ll have a five per-cent share on SAFRAP 
and a seat on the board of directors. That’s one hundred and 
fifty thousand quid a year, plus shares that will be worth tens 
of millions of pounds in ten years time, Ethan. We’ll be fucking 
filthy rich.”

“You mean you two? You admit you’re a French spy and married to 
that harlot?”

“I do. And I want you to come along. Listen, Ethan and listen 
real hard for just this once. You’ve been in the Royal Marines 
for what now?”

“Sixteen bloody fucking years. Ever since Suez.”

“Mother almost died of grief back then and father only hoped for 
a commission. And when that commission finally came?”

“Kenya. What does this have to do with everything?”

“You’re wasting yourself, Ethan. You’re my brother and I know if 
you keep drinking like that you’ll end up an alcoholic. You 
should’ve been a Major by now, isn’t that right?”

“I hadn’t thought you kept your eye on me.”

“I had to, it was part of my job.”

“In other words, you wouldn’t normally piss on me even if I’d 
caught on fire, would you now?”

“Even if you had me cut off, I still knew your life was going 
down the drain.”

“Whereas you’re coming up in the world, aren’t you Andy? Your own 
oil company.”

“Our own oil company. Think of the legacy to our grandchildren. 
And their own grandchildren. This is not just a once in a 
lifetime opportunity, Ethan. It’s a historic opportunity.”

“We haven’t really talked like this, face to face I mean, in 
what? Five, six years? I suppose people change over the years, 
and six years is a lot. But I’d never thought you can turn into 
the opposite like that.”

“This hasn’t got to do with us, don’t you understand?”

“Of course it’s got everything to do with us! This is why I’m 
here in the first place, because you’re all I’ve got left dammit!”

Ethan’s face broke down from the tension. He was trembling 
visibly, breathing heavily, his eyes shimmering with forming 
tears.

“I don’t know where you get your information from, but I’ve had 
it with lying in bed alone. I still haven’t found a bottle of 
cure-all, and believe I’ve done a thorough search. My friends are 
either dead and gone or too busy with their families that we 
haven’t spoken in years. So you see Andy, you’re all I got. It’s 
just, that it’s not you anymore.”

“It is me, Ethan. It’s just that the world around us keeps 
changing. Maybe you have a hard time following, but I’ve found my 
way. So come with me. Come with us.”

“And do what?”

Andy pointed to the map before replying:

“You were training men from the 3rd Marine Commando Division. 
That’s the unit that took over Onitsha and Port Harcourt, and 
they’re now aiming their sights towards Owerri.”

“I knew as much when I set out. What are you trying to get at?”

“The federal government rarely has complete control and a proper 
knowledge of the tactical situation. We know that from our 
sources within. Onitsha and Port Harcourt might have fallen, but 
everything in between is not under the control of the 3rd 
Division. Technically, you could call it contested territory, but 
in reality we are as active and unhindered as ever.”

“Why is that?”

“Total disregard for securing their flanks. Solely advancing 
through the main roads, which is practically one main route into 
the Delta. They’re even superstitious about night operations. All 
our scouting activity is done under the cover of night; it’s like 
going for a romantic hike. No patrols to speak of, no light and 
noise emission control; it’s like they don’t care, and that’s 
because they really don’t.”

“That doesn’t sound like anything I’ve been teaching them.”

“Whatever kind of job you’ve done, the men you train never become 
trainers themselves. They form core squads for scouting and 
penetration missions, but in reality they’re used like a 
bodyguard for the commander-in-chief.”

“Either way, nothing about what they were trained for.”

“No. But we’ve turned some of them and they’ve proven very 
resourceful and quick about their feet and wits. Small scale 
surveillance, pipeline sabotage, ammunition raids, motor pools. 
We have a few of those teams doing really precious work. We’d 
give you one such team and take on a mission that might change 
the outcome of the war.”

“I thought every kind of mission was important?”

“Not really. We want you to insert a team of scouts along with 
Nicole and take out the commander of the 3rd Marine Commando 
Division. Along with the 2nd Division, they’re trying to form a 
pinch and force Owerri to either capitulate, run away or fight. 
All three are bad. There’s little strategic depth and losing the 
designated capital will be interpreted as a political defeat. 
Fighting a prolonged siege is almost always the last resort. 
We’ve made plans and contingencies, but we need to stop this 
pincher movement from happening.”

“You want me to kill a Nigerian General?”

“Nicole is the designated shooter. You will provide scouting, 
insertion and extraction. All you need to do is get her within a 
mile of him. Once he’s gone, panic will ensue, the operation will 
halt. They’ll probably think the bad juju got to him or 
something.”

“I see. And everyone gets their money in the end.”

“Well there are people in this war who are in it for the kicks. 
As long as they’ve got bullets they’re happy to shoot whoever you 
want them to shoot.”

“Whereas you are in it for the pension, the benefits and the 
mademoiselle.”

“Why the bloody hell not, Ethan? What has Queen and Country ever 
given to you that is so precious, so irreplaceable, so worthy of 
it all? Why let them make all the money and sent you as an 
unwilling pawn? What is it you’ve been doing in Nigeria Ethan, 
that is crucial to the Crown? All they want to is make money all 
the same. The difference is, this way you get to share the pie.”

“And that’s all that there is to it? What about never leaving 
someone behind? Like you for instance.”

“Grow up, Ethan. Fighting is simply a means, not an end. To you, 
maybe it’s all that has any meaning left in the world. To the 
world, all that matters is power. And money is a very flexible 
and ingenious way to store it. And it’s not just the money going 
into the pockets of MPs, ministers and businessmen; it’s a 
strategic asset. The more you control, the more you can gamble on 
a crisis; and the more profit you can make. It really boils down 
to money in the end, true enough, but some things can’t be bought 
at any price, at any time. Just like oil.”

“Just like loyalty. You’re trying to buy your own brother? By 
God, how can I trust you from hereon after Andy?”

“Trust is simply another commodity. There are ways to buy it when 
it is needed, and chances to sell it when it suits you.”

“You’ve never met anyone that can’t be bought? That can’t be 
turned into a pawn?”

“Sure. Those are the kind of people that we need to disappear.”

“Like that General?”

“It would take an unrealistic amount of money to buy the ruling 
Nigerian elite; That’s because they want the same oil we want, 
and they have the men and the resources to pull it off. In that 
sense, we’re antagonists. In every other sense, we’re simple 
colleagues.”

“Conspirators.”

“Men of trade. As long as you’re in a position to offset a 
balance in your favor, there’s no sense in not taking advantage 
of that. Would you see an opening, an opportunity in a firefight 
and not take it?”

“In a firefight you’re fighting for your life. What is this 
fighting for?”

“The same thing; survival.”

“Tell that to the poor bastards dying out there every day. 
Ordinary, simple people that are happy with their bellies full 
and a pint or two.”

“I think you should be seeing my point by now. They don’t get to 
choose; they get to be the ones that pay handsomely in every way 
imaginable to make their lives a little more tolerable. And make 
people like me, like us, a lot more rich than they could ever 
hope to be.”

“And why is that so bloody fucking important?”

“There are certain interests in place that don’t simply go away 
when you close your eyes. Money can control people, it can 
translate into power and leverage. And that power can grow over 
time. It can get you many places. Even in people’s hearts and 
minds.”

“Politics?”

“The only way to really change this world, is to make the people 
want it to change.”

“And what kind of change would that be?”

“The Empire has already crumbled down, Ethan. It’s just that the 
people hang on to the walls and the monuments and the crown 
jewels in order to shed some glittery light in their agonizing 
lives. I want to make sure the future holds something more than 
reminiscence for the glorious days of yore. I want to build 
something new, and that would mean I’d first have to raze it 
down.”

“You mean the monarchy, don’t you?” asked Ethan in a whisper, his 
expression a mix of fascination and terror.

“I mean a brand new Scotland, Ethan. A free Scotland. There are 
people who view such a cause with more than sympathy,” said Andy 
and looked meaningfully at Nicole who raised her brow in 
response. Ethan remained silent, lost in his own thoughts. When 
he managed to speak, his voice grew from a soft whisper to an 
angry rumble:

“Dear God. This might sound awfully simplistic, patronising and 
perhaps naive, but don’t you believe in God? I’m not talking 
about heaven and hell. I’m not saying there’s a divine judgment 
waiting to fall upon you, and I’m not saying there’s a pool of 
blood and shit waiting for you in the afterlife, although I’d die 
just to know that there truly is one. All I’m saying is, what 
kind of a filthy bastard are you?”

“Hopefully the filthy rich one, for starters. Come now, Ethan, 
you’re making me sound like a monster. I’m not the one behind all 
this misery in the world. I’m not the one that’s on top of button 
that could destroy the world. And I’m not the one living off that 
fear. I’m not the one that puts greed into the heart of men. I’m 
just someone who saw an opportunity and grabbed it. There are 
people in the world born into such money and power that squander 
it away. There are people who fight and bleed for their place in 
the sun, and I’ll have my place in the sun, I’ll see Scotland 
free. That’s who I am, Ethan.”

“I thought you were my brother.”

“I still am. And that’s the only reason you’re still alive. The 
only reason I’m making this offer. I could have picked someone 
else. We could have brought someone in from the Service. He’d 
actually do it more or less for free.”

“Whereas my current price is?”

“One percent of the shares from my five-percent cut. That leaves 
me and Nicole with two percent each.”

“Aren’t you the lovely couple.”

“We’re pragmatists. It’s time you’ve become one yourself. You 
have twenty fours Ethan. These things can’t wait.”

“And then? What happens then?”

“Ask yourself just this once: who is going to miss you? The 
answer, I believe, will make it so much easier to decide,” said 
Andy condescendingly, softly, as if he really felt sorry for 
Ethan. Ethan remained silent for a moment before he closed his 
eyes and asked:

“Andy?”

“Yes?”

“Sod off, mate,” he said without bothering to open his eyes and 
gave him the finger. Andy didn’t smile or laugh; he put his hands 
around his waist and looked at his brother with a deep, concerned 
frown. He then told him in a hushed, nearly wavering voice: 

“Think about it, Ethan. Think about Father Mulcahey. And I do 
mean, think.”

Ethan shook his head and Andy nodded. He then turned about and 
went up the staircase. Nicole stood there smiling until Ethan 
noticed and asked her rather dejectedly:

“What the fuck are you smiling for?”

“I rarely get this close to my marks. I’m savouring the moment,” 
she said with evident joy at the prospect of having Ethan in her 
sights.

“What if I say `yes’, and then we have to work together?” asked 
Ethan frustrated.

“Well then, there will be other chances,” she said, put out her 
cigarette on the floor and left.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

James was sitting at his office, his shoulders tense from 
impatience. At a corner of his desk, sat an empty glass jag, 
filled with sagged, dried out lemons; it had been sitting there 
for days.

He threw cursive glances at the phone, as if he was trying to 
make it ring. When it did though, the voices of the men that 
talked to him rang hollow in his ears. He rarely answered in 
anything other than a curt, official tone; he could hardly 
remember what had been going on around Headquarters for the past 
couple of days.

There were reports and briefings, both from the British and their 
own intelligence branch; there were troop assessments and updated 
maps, but there was nothing very intelligent about them. Whatever 
Lagos thought about the war had little to do with the war itself; 
and those on the front had little idea of what they were actually 
doing, other than pushing forward, shooting everything that 
moved.

But that was just hazy imagery in James’ mind’s eye; what he 
longed and waited for wasn’t in those reports. He was waiting for 
a phone call that never seemed to come. It had been days since 
Ethan had left; no contact whatsoever. It was a feat in itself 
keeping him loosely tracked by filling in the gaps from all the 
reports he could get his hands on.

He’d reached Owerri for sure, that much he knew; it wasn’t hard 
to find an Englishman, even amongst all the chaos and death. 
Especially when he made such dramatic appearances like the one in 
Onitsha. He didn’t expect him to have it in him; and there was no 
real chance the incident at the bar wasn’t Ethan’s handiwork.

It had began to take shape; everything was coming together 
nicely. All those years before, he could have never expected 
things to turn out that way; he had never expected fate to turn 
the cards in his favor. If only Enkele was still alive, he would 
taste the changing age, and know that it wasn’t all for naught.

The white elephant’s days are over, thought James. It’s our turn 
now, brother.

He had stopped the ceiling fan; the window blinds were closed but 
still the heat was almost unbearable. Sweat ran down his forehead 
and his cheeks. It touched his lips and he tasted it; it was sour 
and salty, with a hint of bitterness.

It must be all those lemons in the tea.

The phone rang and James heartbeat went racing. He looked at the 
telephone in awe, as if it was a thing of magic, a powerful beast 
in hiding. It rang twice more before James snapped out of his 
stupor and picked up the receiver hesitantly. A voice on the 
other end reported name and rank curtly, and added in Yoruba:

“There’s an outside line for you, sir. The number is not 
registered, would you like me to record?”

“No, that will be fine sergeant. Patch me through, and resume 
your duties.”

“Very well, sir,” replied the sergeant and after a short series 
of buzzing and clicking sounds, the voice of an older man came 
on. He spoke English with a frail, nasal tone, as if every word 
required an effort.

“It’s time, James. Do what you must.”

“What about the leak?”

“We need some guarantees, James. We’ve dealt in duplicity before. 
We do it all the time,” said the old man, coughed, and cleared 
his voice.

“I’ll do it my way,” said James after swallowing hard.

“Just burn them, James. Burn them to hell,” came the reply, 
filled with finality.

James nodded silently and hang up slowly. He turned around then 
and peeked through the window blinds; he saw the garden plaza, 
and the same, tiny swarm of men that he saw everyday.

They haven’t got a clue. Poor bastards.

He sighed, picked up the phone receiver and dialed a single 
digit. An operator came on the line, and James told him in his a 
professional, strict manner:

“Get me the radio room.”

Family affairs

Ethan slept on and off that night, trying to digest the events of 
the day before with little success. At the hidden basement the 
night before, he had overheard some sort of loud argument about 
whether or not he should be bound and returned to his impromptu 
cell. Instead, Andy had won over and Ethan was then led by two 
armed men to the upper floor and confined to a small bedroom.

They were going with the soft approach; Ethan smiled at the 
thought that Andy was trying to get on his good side. Whether it 
was the easy way or the hard way, in essence it made no 
difference to Ethan; as he lay down on the comfortable bed all he 
could think of was that his brother had actually told him himself 
he was a bloody spy for the French.

His mind was filled with all the little things they did together 
when they were still only children. Andy’s answers had left him 
wondering still. When did his brother turn into a man driven by 
greed and power lust? When did that shy kid he had drawn into 
harmless mischief so many times become such a cynical bastard?

Ethan thought it was perhaps all those years in between that grew 
them apart; when he had lost himself as well. Maybe these things 
just happened. But still, that didn’t mean he had to let them be.

He almost laughed aloud when he thought about it; there he was, 
imprisoned by his brother, probably about to be executed unless 
he cooperated in an assassination for the benefit of the French 
Intelligence Service. And instead of at least trying to think of 
a way to get out of there without having to become a lackey for 
the French, he was contemplating ending the war single-handed.

He wasn’t sure if it was at all realistic, but he knew he had to 
try an escape. He had been keeping count of the days; James would 
be coming for him by nightfall, and all he knew was that he was 
someplace east of the River. No matter, he thought; with any 
luck, getting to the rendezvous point would be the least of his 
problems.

He felt galvanised into action all of a sudden and sprang out of 
bed. He took a careful look outside the window; he could still 
see sentries posted around the house. Late the night before, they 
had been almost invisible; in the morning, Ethan could see they 
were carefully obscured behind brushes of reeds and thick 
mangroves.

They looked calm while keeping vigilant, their hands resting near 
their rifles’ safeties. They were armed with a multitude of 
seemingly well-maintained weapons; no-one was slacking about, 
smoking or chatting. He counted at least four men; he estimated 
about ten around the mansion, and perhaps double as many 
underground and in the surrounding higher ground. On top of being 
well-equipped and numerous, they seemed to be quite disciplined, 
always a very unwelcome trait in an enemy.

Daylight wouldn’t help, and he couldn’t wait out for the 
nighttime; he cursed under his breath for being so tied up with 
his thoughts the night before. If there had been any good chance 
of trying to slip away unnoticed, it was by then long gone.

He had heard footsteps outside his door at some point, and they 
seemed to be more than one man posted outside. He couldn’t outrun 
them, and he couldn’t outgun them either; all he could hope to do 
was outsmart them.

He looked around the room then for a few minutes. There were some 
clean sheets in the closet drawers and that was just about it. 
There was an old oil lamp sitting around the bedside table and 
that was about it. He went inside the bathroom and searched the 
tiny cupboard; planning ahead, someone had thought it prudent to 
keep a full medical kit even in the mansion, aside from the 
typical bottle of painkillers and medical alcohol. He noticed the 
painkillers were of the effervescent kind, and had an idea that 
made him grin. 

He sat down on the bed, his back towards the door. He laid it 
down in front of his feet and counted the items; four medical 
gauzes, two sticks of morphine, two sticks of atropine, a sterile 
stitching needle, salt tabs, and a small, folding double-edge 
serrated knife which could double as a small saw.

He nodded to himself reassuringly and emptied the bottle of 
alcohol down the washing basin’s drain. He filled it with water 
from the faucet and went back into the room. He laid himself down 
on the bed, and popped a mouthful of pills into his mouth. He 
then poured some water in his mouth and felt the pills sizzle and 
froth. He then threw the oil lamp on the floor, and put the knife 
under his buttocks. He closed his eyes and started thrashing 
about, making sure he made as much noise as possible.

He then started counting silently, waiting for them to come 
rushing in. There was still a chance they’d alert someone else as 
well; he was counting on blind luck and a bit of panic to make 
this happen.

he had counted up to seven before he heard a key turn in the 
lock. They were a bit slow to make up their minds but they hadn’t 
started shouting. Ethan heard them talking in a panicked, low 
voice. One of them rushed to the bedside. As he was thrashing, 
Ethan fluttered his eyes, while foam flowed down his cheeks. He 
saw the guard kneel down to his right, and set his rifle against 
the wall. As he bent forward to reach Ethan’s mouth in fear of 
his tongue blocking his breath, Ethan snapped into action with 
one fluid motion.

He pulled the knife from under his buttocks, sat suddenly upright 
and threw his best shot at the guard standing by the door; the 
knife pierced his temple right between the eyes, and stuck there 
as he slumped down on the floor like a puppet with cut strings. 
Following the knife’s throw, Ethan took advantage of the other 
guard’s stunned surprise and smacked him, head to head. As he was 
kneeling down, he lost his balance and fell flat on the floor 
with a muted thump.

Ethan was right on top of him in a flash, his hand against his 
mouth. He tried to shout, but the muffled noise was barely more 
than a tremor against Ethan’s hand. He bit hard against a soft 
spot on Ethan’s palm, and punched him in the stomach. Ethan 
flinched and felt dizzy from the pain, but his other hand was 
already reaching for the rifle against the wall.

The guard threw a punch with his other fist aiming for Ethan’s 
face but it didn’t connect, as Ethan slid sideways just a notch 
and grabbed the rifle. He thrust its stock against the man’s ribs 
and made him try and fold in pain. Ethan then raised it above his 
head and brought it down with as much power as he could gather.

A cracking noise was heard and the man went suddenly limp, his 
eyes stuck in a deathly cold stare towards the ceiling. Blood 
started to ooze from his nose and ears.

Ethan took a moment for some much needed breath, not so from the 
exertion but because of the adrenaline. He needed to cool down 
before going into the next phase, which was creating a suitable 
diversion for his escape; blowing up the stores in the basement 
of the mansion.

He stood up and sat back on the bed, wiping the foam of his 
cheeks. He then heard a shallow but familiar voice:

“Fuck me, you’ve killed them both.”

It was Andy. Ethan instinctively grabbed the rifle in front of 
him and aimed it at his brother who was standing at the door. He 
flicked the safety off, and said flatly:

“Don’t make me shoot you.”

Andy smiled heartily with a gleaming smile and replied:

“Bugger me, why would I ever want to do that?”

Ethan frowned and looked blatantly confused. He was still aiming 
Andy though when he said:

“Look, I’m leaving through that door. Andy, for the love of God, 
don’t try to stop me.”

“Stop you? I’d have you killed all along from the start if I 
needed to stop you. Jesus, Ethan. Put down that rifle and help me 
drag this one inside,” said Andy as he proceeded to grab the 
slumped body from the armpits.

Ethan’s confounded look was exaggerated by his dumbstruck tone of 
voice:

“What the fuck do you mean?”

Andy looked at him with a blank expression and replied in all 
seriousness:

“It’s English for `put down that rifle and help me drag this one 
inside’.”

The attempt at humour went largely unnoticed by Ethan who lowered 
his weapon before asking incredulously:

“You’re helping me escape?”

Andy dragged the body a few feet inside while Ethan watched as if 
mesmerized. He put it down on the floor and closed the door 
quietly before turning to reply with a grin:

“No, not yet; you’re helping me blow this place up first.”

Ethan asked with a hint of irony, still clutching the rifle in 
his hands:

“Change of plans?”

Andy shook his head and replied with a tone of pride:

“This was the plan pretty much from the start.”

Ethan put down the rifle and looked at Andy with a blank 
expression. He sounded helpless when he said:

“I don’t understand.”

Andy looked behind him momentarily as if he had heard something 
and then said, looking almost smug:

“I hate to brag but you weren’t the brightest of the two.”

Ethan got up and moved towards the body with knife still sticking 
out of its head. He eyed his brother warily and asked:

“Care to explain? Did your deal break down?”

Andy knelt beside the other body and checked for vital signs. He 
looked at Ethan and replied as if trying to explain something 
very complicated to a schoolkid:

“Not exactly. I infiltrated the French Secret Service in ’62, and 
placed myself in a position to select the assignment in Biafra. I 
set every part of this operation up in order to close it down 
when it would most needed. I’d waited for a few more weeks, but 
then you turned up. So now I’ve got to speed things up and 
improvise.”

“What on Earth are you saying?”, asked Ethan as he pulled out the 
knife, his expression a confused mix of wariness and curiosity.

Andy said flatly, “I’m MI6.”

“You?” asked Ethan with a slight shake of his head, grinning 
thinly.

“Who did you expect, Sean Connery?” said Andy almost indignantly 
and smiled reassuringly.

Ethan smiled back with some effort and asked his brother:

“It was all a show then?”

Andy looked at his brother in a stern fashion, as if he’d been 
hurt, and told him:

“I told you to really try and think about Father Mulcahey.”

“I thought you were being a bit remorseful,” replied Ethan in a 
somewhat awkward manner. Andy came right next to him and grabbed 
him by one arm, looked him straight in the eyes and said:

“I thought you hadn’t forgotten about what he made us promise.”

Ethan felt a weight suddenly lift from his shoulders, and replied 
with a shake of his head:

“I haven’t, Andy. That’s why I’m here.”

Ethan nodded and said calmly:

“A blessing in disguise, because we’ve got work to do.”

They dragged both bodies inside the bathroom before locking the 
bedroom door. Andy said to Ethan:

“We’ve got about half an hour before someone comes to check up on 
you. It might look like a lot of time but there’s a lot to do. 
We’ll be cutting it close,” he said and produced a length of 
rope. He then told Ethan:

“Come on, give me your hands.”

“You’re going to tie my hands?” asked Ethan with wariness in his 
voice.

“You’re supposed to be the prisoner, remember? Just because 
they’re sentries it doesn’t mean they’re that thick.”

Ethan nodded silently before he replied:

“Makes sense. What did you have in mind?” he said while Andy 
loosely tied his hands together, making sure Ethan could easily 
pull on some of the rope and loose it completely.

Andy checked the finished knot around Ethan’s hands, raised his 
brow and said in a professional, neutral manner:

“Blow everything up, basically. I’m not sure how much you’ve seen 
but there’s about a mile of underground corridors and rooms 
filled with a couple millions of rounds of ammunition.”

“Time detonators?” asked Ethan.

“Slow fuses. Then we really need to get going. With any luck 
we’ll be a mile out when everything lights up.”

“Guards, patrols? From what I’ve seen these guys mean business.”

“There are sentries at the entry and exit points of the 
underground complex. There won’t be much of a problem as long as 
we keep ahead of the two patrols. They’re doing runs across the 
perimeter and checks on the inside as well. They meet up at the 
entry point. If all goes well, we should have about fifteen 
minutes once we go inside.”

“Let’s make it count then. You’ve got everything figured out, 
haven’t you?”

“Well, not everything,” said Andy with a hint of worry and 
beckoned Ethan to follow him downstairs.

“You mean Nicole?” whispered Ethan instinctively as he followed 
downstairs.

“Yes, I mean Nicole,” replied Andy with some irritation and 
added:

“You don’t have to whisper, the house is empty. No-one uses it 
but me and Nicole; the Biafrans live in the huts.”

“Where is she?” 

“That’s what I’m worried about,” replied Andy and added with a 
feeling of anxiety, “I’m not sure.”

Ethan said then:

“She’s keeping secrets as well?”

“It’s just that she roams about when she’s back here; checking up 
on the people, the ammo, everything. Like some sort of pesky 
General. The Biafrans got a nickname for her too. <BITCH IN 
IGBO>.”

“Let me guess. Does that mean bitch?”

“It does, she knows that. But she also knows it means she’s doing 
her job right.”

“She might be trouble then, won’t she?”

“Look, I’ll handle Nicole. Now come on, let’s go. Try and look a 
bit crestfallen, glum, ashamed. That sort of thing.”

“You could ask me to play it natural then,” said Ethan and 
grinned before continuing:

“No, seriously. I need that radio in the basement first. And my 
stuff too.”

“Your stuff is in the basement. What do you need the radio for?”

“I’ve got a friend waiting to pick me up in a couple of hours 
notice.”

“How’s he going to do that? Fly?” said Andy with an ironic grin.

“Actually, yes. With a helicopter.”

“I was thinking of a legged route till the borders, then I could 
contact the office to get some tickets or something.”

“Tickets? Really?” asked Ethan incredulously.

“At the end of the day, we’re still public servants,” replied 
Andy with a feeling of justified indignation.

“I haven’t got a clue where this place is. Any coordinates for a 
good landing spot?”

“There’s a half-finished oil plant west of Owerri, in Obofia 
forest. That’s about three miles north of Omuku. It’s a couple 
hours of walk alongside the river. It’s almost ten past ten. One 
o’clock seems fine.”

“Alright. With any luck we’ll be having a couple of pints for 
lunch.”

“I hope so, Ethan. Now off you go, get down below. I’ll keep 
watch up here, but make it fast,” he said as he led Ethan to the 
hidden door, pulled the small lever and opened the door for him, 
while his expression remained one of worried deliberation. Ethan 
noticed and told him reassuringly:

“It’ll be alright in the end, Andy. I know it will.”

“God willing,” said Andy with an uneasy smile as Ethan nodded and 
went down the stairs.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

They walked casually out the front door of the mansion, Ethan in 
front and Andy in the back with a pistol in hand. The guards saw 
them but paid little attention, their heads spending most of the 
time looking above to the overcast sky.

“It’ll rain. That might put a dent in the flight plan,” said 
Ethan in a low key. Andy replied almost under his breath:

“Don’t talk. Prisoners are never allowed to talk, and you, 
especially you can’t be an exception,” and shoved Ethan, trying 
to look authoritative and bossy for the benefit of the guards. 
Ethan stopped, turned his head around and looked at Andy angrily 
for a moment, on which Andy commented:

“That’s the spirit. Properly pissed off,” he said with a grin and 
made a gesture with the pistol for Ethan to move on.

Ethan did not reply, but still walked onwards. Andy checked 
around them for any sign of one of the patrols going inside the 
house. They were walking casually but briskly, trying not to 
appear too hasty without good reason. Around them the sound of 
the river rushing by dominated the rest of the voice of the 
jungle. The animals had felt the rain coming as well.

They approached the guard at the entry point, who asked Andy 
something in Igbo. The guard wore an unusually wide grin, and 
made shooting gestures with his rifle. Andy replied tersely, and 
the guard stopped his little act, and replied curtly. Andy 
nodded, the guard opened the metal panel and grabbed Ethan by the 
arm, forcing him to step on the ladder and get below. Ethan used 
his fingers to grab onto the small metal bars of the ladder. 
Another man was guarding the foot of the ladder, silently 
watching Andy and Ethan.

The foot of the ladder was well lit, near an intersection of the 
complex. Ethan remembered how he’d been led here when released 
from the machinery room where he’d been kept for a while. He 
could confidently find his way over there, even though the 
corridors looked almost identical. The lights were on, powered 
from a generator somewhere but there were blind spots from burnt 
out bulbs. The dank, cool air had an oily feeling about it; it 
smelled of cordite and gasoline.

Ethan and the guard exchanged a few looks, the guard seemingly 
checking him up from head to toe. Ethan seemed like an angry 
animal trapped in a cage: he sported a razor-sharp gaze, 
fidgeting and looking pumped-up. The guard glanced once or twice 
at the knots in his hands, but Andy stepped between them and 
asked the guard in Igbo. His voice had an anxious, urgent 
quality. The guard seemed uneasy, shaking his head and answering 
in a monotone. Andy repeated the question with emphasis, while 
the guard on the surface closed the panel.

Once the panel had been sealed, Andy nodded to Ethan who 
instantly pulled on the rope and let loose his hands. The guard’s 
eyes went wide with surprise, but even as he tried to shout and 
push Andy away, his mouth was already covered and Andy’s knee was 
already connecting powerfully with the guard’s genitals.

The guard folded from the pain, and let out a muffled groan. 
Ethan sprang up on him from one side and caught his head in his 
hands. With a quick, expert motion, he violently turned the man’s 
head around and a snapping noise was heard. The guard went limp 
and they both quickly and quietly dragged him to the near end of 
the corridor, where a soft shadow kept the body somewhat hard to 
notice from a distance.

Andy checked his watch and nodded for Ethan to follow him. They 
picked up the pace and were soon jogging inside the complex, 
seemingly on a random route. They kept passing by locked and 
barred doors, when Andy suddenly stopped. He produced a small 
key-chain and quickly selected a key. Ethan kept looking back and 
forth for any sign or sound of a patrol.

Andy unlocked the door and quietly raised the bar and set it 
aside. He opened the door and flicked open a switch. A warm 
yellow lamplight filled the room and they both went inside. It 
was a large storage room, with crates of various sizes neatly 
stacked and arranged. Andy’s eyes quickly scanned the room, 
searching for something in particular, his right index finger 
hovering in the air.

He then pointed to one corner of the room and said to Ethan, “
There’s a crowbar lying around there somewhere.”

Andy then showed him a particular crate and told him, “Open that 
one up.” 

Ethan found the crowbar, while Andy was rummaging about in 
another side of the room, as if sorting something by hand. Ethan 
opened up the crate to reveal a tightly packed array of small 
brown bricks. He carefully removed one and examined it with 
curiosity. He then asked Andy:

“A crate of Semtex?” he said as he casually checked the labels on 
the other crates.

“So that’s the right one, eh? That was supposed to be used in 
wrecking the Onitsha bridge,” answered Andy, lost behind a series 
of crates. “We’ll have to move it to another room. And we’ll need 
some oil barrels as well,” continued Andy, his voice strained 
from the physical exertion.

“Alright, I can carry this. Have you got the fuses?” asked Ethan 
as he fumbled with another box.

Andy finally reappeared sporting a thin grin and a thick bundle 
of a white, waxy rope.

“We’re done here,” said Andy and checked his watch once more. “
We’ve got about five minutes. We’ll have to lay down the fuses, 
and wait the patrol out. Then we jump them,” said Andy as he 
straightened his glasses, turned towards the door and stood 
frozen still.

Nicole had just entered the room with a knife in one hand, and a 
gun in the other. She was aiming at Andy, her face impossibly 
torn between anger and sorrow. She trembled visibly when she 
spoke:

“What would you do with me, Andy?”

Andy turned around and looked at her with a hint of guilt. He 
took a step closer instinctively before trying to reply. Nicole 
placed her sights squarely against him, a couple of feet away 
from his forehead, while Ethan turned slowly around, trying to 
edge himself closer to her. She swapped targets at blinding 
speed, and told Ethan:

“I need answers. Hands were I can see them.”

“Put the gun down, Nicole. I know I should’ve told you. It just 
wasn’t the right time,” said Andy with a sorrowful, earnest 
voice.

“Is there a right time?” asked Nicole, her eyes wet already from 
a film of tears.

“Put the gun down before we’re vaporized,” interjected Ethan. It 
made Nicole laugh bitterly, before she answered, sniffing her 
noise lightly:

“I can put a bullet on a man’s head a mile away. Don’t worry, I 
won’t hit anything else other than you.”

Ethan took a side step and revealed his hand was holding a small 
metal box, with wires stretching away from it, set right into a 
block of Semtex.

“You want answers? That’s fine, I’d like some answers myself.”

Nicole’s expression turned into one of anxiety. She gripped her 
gun with uncertainty, while she was starting to sweat. She kept 
her eyes fixed on Ethan without saying a word for a few moments. 
Andy told her then, with as much truth as he could muster in his 
voice:

“Come with me. We’ll leave this life behind. I’ll quit the 
Service. They’ll debrief you, give you a new name, everything. 
We’ll get lost somewhere in the world, start over. If I can’t 
have anything, I must have you, Nicole.”

“Why didn’t you say so from the start, Andy? I’d hoped the source 
was wrong. But no. All my years of work, thrown out the window. 
For you, non?” she said trembling, her voice wavering like that 
of a scared child.

“I thought I could keep it professional. I thought I could just 
work you, like you were trying to work me. But I just couldn’t, 
Nicole. Could you?” asked Andy passionately, looking as if he was 
lost into her eyes. She whispered almost inaudibly, “Non,” and 
her brow furrowed as she seemed to soften up, giving in to a 
feeling she could not contain. But her gun was still aiming at 
Ethan, who cut in with a polite, little laughter and said:

“You’re holding a gun, I’m holding a detonator, and you want to 
have a little moment? This is outrageous! Listen, we either all 
walk away, or no-one does. My choice, really,” said Ethan 
sounding smug and confident.

“Go on then,” said Nicole before she turned to look at Ethan with 
a furious, mad gaze. She went on and said with abandon:

“Go on, push that trigger. All I want to know is he loves me. 
That Andy loves me. We used each other. He lied. I did too, at 
first. But I thought, he meant everything he said and did.”

“Not everything, love. I took an oath, and I never break them. I 
took an oath to you as well, and I won’t break that one either. 
Come with me now, please,” said Andy with an unseemly pleading 
tone.

“I can’t, Andy. Ce n’est pas possible. How can.. How can I trust 
you now?” she said, fresh tears flowing down both her cheeks. 
Andy replied without hesitation, a fiery conviction in his voice, 
an immaculate, fearless shine in his eyes.

“Look into my eyes. Look into my eyes and tell me that you don’t 
want to trust me. That you don’t love me more than anything.”

“Je ne peux pas. Je peux pas, mon amour.. Je-”

Her voice was cut in mid-sentence as her eyes went wide with 
shock, and she gasped for a little air with her mouth wide open. 
She half-turned her head to see Ethan next to her, feeling the 
gun in her hand slip away. Ethan had stabbed her in the stomach, 
the unimaginable pain rising up from her belly to numb her 
senses. Andy grabbed her with his arms as she couldn’t stand on 
her feet and screamed:

“No, no, wait! Wait!”

Ethan grabbed the fuses and told Andy:

“We need to move. She might’ve warned everyone already. We have 
to go now, Andy!”

Andy seethed with furious anger, even as he laid Nicole down up 
against a wall. He shouted at him even while Nicole bled 
profusely from her belly, her face going visibly pale even under 
the yellowish lamplight:

“What the fuck were you thinking?”

“I was thinking of saving our arses. Now get your wits about you 
and let’s move!”

“She was coming with us, damn you! Damn you, Ethan! She was!” 
cried Andy, barely able to control a rising well of sobs.

Nicole looked at him with her large eyes, her pupils dilated. She 
caressed his cheek with one feeble hand, before she whispered to 
him with real effort:

“I wouldn’t Andy. Not now, not ever. But I still love you..” she 
said as she went into shock and fell unconscious.

“No, no. I have to.. I need to get one of the kits, powder, 
bandages.. Stop the bleeding..” murmured Andy loudly as he still 
held Nicole in his arms. Ethan was overlooking the corridor, 
still seeing nothing alarming. He looked at his brother and saw 
his earlier calm and professional self had turned into some sort 
of living wreck. He grabbed him by the shoulder gently and knelt 
down, came face to face with Andy and spoke softly:

“There was no other way, Andy. The way things turned out, there 
was no other way.”

“Fuck you, Ethan. For God’s sake, she’s not dead yet!” said Andy 
with a sob.

“She said so herself, she wouldn’t. You loved her, I can see that 
now. But she knew and could choose not to try and stop you.”

“It doesn’t fucking matter now, Ethan. You killed her. You bloody 
fucking killed her!”

“I’ll have to live with that too. Don’t let it go to waste, Andy. 
Let’s fucking move,” said Ethan with urgency and Andy looked at 
him in a strange, awkward fashion. He told him then in a choked, 
sobbing voice:

“No-one behind, right?”

“It’s just us brothers now, Andy,” said Ethan and his brother 
nodded as if mesmerized. He made the sign of the cross and kissed 
Nicole on the forehead before he got up. He then picked up the 
crate of Semtex and followed Ethan.

The two of them moved silently, working as a team who knew 
exactly what to do from before hand. Ethan kept a wary eye 
waiting for a patrol to come looking, feeling like they had 
already ran out of time. Andy moved like a machine, and led them 
to a storage room which was filled to the brim with cases full of 
dynamite.

Ethan began laying down blocks of Semtex around the storage room, 
while Andy worked like a machine, running the fuse to many 
different cases, making sure at least one would eventually light 
up, and then the Semtex would go off and that should be enough 
for the next room filled with fuel barrels to burn up in an 
explosion and the ensuing fire that would obliterate everything 
and everyone not just inside the complex, but certainly above as 
well.

Ethan checked his watch while Andy laid the last of the fuses. 
The patrol was actually a little late, but when Ethan took 
another look outside the door down the corridor, he saw two men 
walking towards him, and suddenly stopping and aiming their 
weapons. They started shouting in Igbo, while Ethan shook his 
head and raised an open palm.

The guards were now starting to shout with outrage, and kept 
coming closer, demanding some sort of explanation or 
identification that Ethan had no hope of providing. Instead, he 
remained as apathetic as possible and when the guards came within 
thirty feet or less, he suddenly pulled his Browning and knelt in 
one motion. The guards saw Ethan draw the gun, and let fly a 
burst of rounds. But they were aiming from shoulder-high, and 
their shots missed wildly, chunks of concrete flying off the 
walls.

Ethan ignored the shots against him and aimed calmly at each 
guard, placing three shots against each of them. The bullets met 
their targets at the chest and stomach in an almost identical 
fashion. The guards fell backwards as if they’d been hit by a 
truck, while one of them let fly another burst from his AK-47. 
Ethan shouted to Andy while reloading the magazine with bullets 
from a case of ammo in the room.

“We’re made. Are you done?”

“Done,” said Andy flatly as he appeared through the door, holding 
the rest of the fuse.

“Good, light it up,” said Ethan as he checked the corners for 
signs of more men. Andy replied slowly, as if awaking from a deep 
slumber:

“I’m sorry?”

“Light up the bloody fuse and let’s make a run for it.”

“Well, like this it’s only going to give us a couple of minutes 
at the most.”

“Better run fast enough then,” replied Ethan and looked at Andy 
with a wild-eyed gaze as he took out knife, cut out most of the 
rest of the fuse Andy was holding, and lit up the rest with his 
cigarette lighter.

“Go!” he shouted and ran in front, while Andy swore under his 
breath and ran behind him. He shouted rough directions to Ethan 
who already had an instinctive idea about where the exit lay. 
Half a minute later, they were running down the exit corridor. 
There were two men at the feet of the ladder barely visible in 
front of them. Another two were already climbing down when Ethan 
let out a few carefully placed shots that seemed to miss wildly.

The two Igbo guards seemed to be taken by surprise seeing Andy 
running alongside Ethan, but the reality of flying bullets made 
them start shooting only a moment later. They were trying to aim 
steadily, but they were on full burst; the awesome kick of the 
AK-47 sent the bullets flying wildly around the walls and the 
ceiling, and almost miraculously missed both.

At the same time, they both unleashed a flurry of single-action 
shots, without stopping or even slowing down their run. The shots 
struck home, as jets of blood seemed to eject from one man’s 
torso and the other man’s both legs. They had lost their balance 
falling on the ground, barely alive, screaming from pain.

The men climbing down the ladder had remained stuck halfway down, 
trying to upholster their handguns.

By that time, Andy and Ethan had come so close that they could 
clearly see the anxious fear on the men’s faces. They had time 
enough to exchange a few more shots, the difference in adrenaline 
levels, training and experience making all the difference. The 
guards fell on the floor with a thump, one of them outright dead 
with a hole in his head.

Ethan urged Andy to climb first, and as he did so he took a look 
on his watch and his face turned ashen. He pushed Andy’s buttocks 
upwards as he climbed, and felt an invigorating rush of heavy 
rain. Andy got outside and took a quick look around him, catching 
the glimpse of small teams of men spread around the mansion in 
disarray.

When Ethan got outside right behind him he simply shouted:

“Run like all Hell’s loose!”

They started running in a southerly direction while they heard 
shots flying, unable to see how far off from the mark they were 
falling. The rain had already turned the dirt into mud, while the 
river up front seemed to froth out of control. They kept running 
while the bullets sometimes buried themselves in the mud or broke 
branches off a mangrove. Andy asked then with a shout:

“Time?”

“Should’ve blown up by now!”

“It should? Fuck! If it hasn’t then we have to-”

Without ever having time to finish his sentence, Andy felt the 
earth beneath his feet tremble as if a terrible earthquake was 
underway. He slightly paused in his running stride as if he 
wanted to stop, turn around and look. Ethan caught a glimpse of 
him from the corner of his eye, and instinctively reached for his 
brother and brought him down along with him, flat on the ground. 
Then they felt a terrible wave of overpressure that washed over 
their bodies like a steamroller, pressing them into the mud.

A horrible rumbling noise like a thunderclap tore up the air; a 
few moments later, they felt gravel and sand fall on top of them 
like a cloud had settled above them. Andy hesitantly turned 
around to look, and Ethan followed suit a moment later. Among the 
billowing dust cloud and the large fire, they could make out a 
crater at least three hundred feet wide. Another explosion was 
heard and they saw flames flickering wildly, and debris shooting 
up in the air.

“It’s done,” said Ethan as he got up and started walking with 
evident relief in his face, as if the thick rain cleansed 
everything. Andy got up, made the sign of the cross and followed 
him without ever turning to look back again.

[vphantom:]

* * *

[vphantom:]

The torrential rain had turned into a constant drizzle, an 
all-encompassing wet curtain. Andy had been leading their way to 
the extraction point - a few kilometers southwest - in an almost 
complete silence. Ethan knew it all had to do with Nicole, but he 
felt there was little he could say or do at that moment. It would 
take time; he had learned that the hard way.

The dense vegetation, the rain and their exhaustion as well as 
the wearing-out of the adrenaline meant they were taking their 
time. Still, when Ethan looked at his watch, they would be there 
on time: it was almost a quarter to one. Ethan then asked Andy:

“How close are we?”

Andy stopped for a moment, said nothing and pointed to a clearing 
up ahead. They were walking down a small bluff, with the river on 
their right, overlooking the rest of the forest, a veritable sea 
of greens and browns, with a misty fog in place of a sky.

Ethan was trying not to think about anything else other than a 
hot shower and a round or more of drinks. But he couldn’t stop 
bringing up Nicole’s image in his mind; her face all pale, and 
Andy’s cries piercing his ears. He knew it was the only way, it 
was just that he also felt Andy might never see it that way. And 
that hurt.

He kept his silent council and moved on. After a few minutes, 
they had arrived at the clearing with time to spare. Ethan sat 
down on the ground to rest his legs and feet, while Andy kept 
looking at the sky, as if searching for the helicopter.

“He’ll be here, alright. Don’t worry about that. There’s no one 
following us, at least not close enough. Plus, with that kind of 
explosion I’m pretty sure half the 3rd division is rushing 
towards that place.”

“How can you be sure? How can you know?” snapped back Andy with a 
furious stare.

“Look, you’re right. I can’t. I’m just guessing, just like 
everyone else. But he’ll be here. I trust James.”

“That friend of yours? You could’ve trusted me, damn you, 
couldn’t you?”

“I did, Andy. That’s why I did it. You heard her, she wouldn’t 
have come. She’d shoot us both dead when she felt like it, Andy. 
I just saw an opening and did what I had to do. I felt you’d-”

“You thought she’d work her charm on me, and then kill me? She 
could have done it a thousand places, Ethan! In my sleep, in my 
food and drink. When we were making love, when we were out there, 
killing in the name of.. Fuck me, I don’t know anymore!” cried 
Andy before falling down on his knees and sobbing quietly. Ethan 
remained silent, unable to say anything of value. Andy went on 
after a few moments, his voice trembling, rising and falling with 
each word:

“There are things, you need as a constant. Things to make sure 
you’re still sane, things that you can look back and remind you 
who you are. Faces, places from your past, before you went into 
the field. They told us about it, how to handle it, how people 
fought it off during and after the war. But when you take that 
away from a man.. When you find out what that single point of 
failure is, then..”

His voice trailed off with a miserable echo of finality. Ethan 
was trying to find words, any words to make his brother feel that 
not everything was lost, that he was there to stand by him. But 
it felt pretentious and lacking. Ethan knew then he had gone 
through all this to find his brother, and now even though he was 
standing a couple of feet away, he was losing him anew. He 
couldn’t allow that, so he told Andy:

“I can’t bring her back. I was wrong, Andy. But there’s nothing 
any of us can do now. Forgive me, that’s all I’ll ever ask of you 
again.”

Andy looked up at Ethan with a hint of tears welling up in his 
eyes. It was as if he was looking through a mirage at someone 
very familiar yet strange to him. He cleared his throat then and 
told Ethan:

“I can’t find it in my heart now Ethan. I just can’t. But I can 
promise you we’ll always be brothers. I hope I’ll find the time,” 
he said and lowered his head in contemplation once more. Ethan 
bit his lips and nodded silently.

Then he heard a pulsating, faint thumping noise that grew louder 
every moment. It was the sound of helicopter blades swooshing 
through the air; to Ethan, it sounded like trumpets from heaven. 
Despite all the guilt and the uneasiness he felt, it brought a 
thin smile to his lips. Andy took notice as a light troop 
transport helicopter appeared over the treetops through the 
thinning fog at a distance, crisscrossing the river as it kept a 
northerly route.

“Hey! Hey! That’s James, always on time!” said Ethan as he 
started flailing his hands wildly and jumping up and down. Andy 
stood up and had a better look. The helicopter swung towards them 
after a few seconds, circled up above and began a slow, careful 
descend right in the middle of the clearing.

Ethan could see James through the cockpit, smiling thinly. As the 
helicopter began touching down, both him and Andy crouched low 
and tried to shield their faces from the updraft created from the 
rotor blades that sent sand and mud flying towards them.

The helicopter touched down with closed side-doors. Ethan noticed 
the engine pitch was going down as well; the rotor blades were 
spinning down. James had powered the helicopter down for some 
reason.

Andy was looking at James warily, while Ethan shook his head to 
reassure him. He himself though, was feeling something was amiss. 
James opened the cockpit door and jumped off the helicopter. He 
was wearing the standard issue flight suit, complete with helmet 
which he promptly removed, and let the rain wash over his face. 
He blinked and tasted the rain for a moment, before he smiled at 
Ethan.

Ethan smiled back somewhat awkwardly and told him:

“We can’t thank you enough, James. Is there some problem? Why did 
you power down?”

James took his handgun out of his holster casually, while his 
face became contorted, as if suddenly angered or threatened.

“Because you’re not leaving,” James said and pointed the gun at 
Andy who had precious little time to remember that he had heard 
James’ voice somewhere before. And then Andy was already lying on 
his back; the power of the shot had sent him flying a couple of 
feet, his shoulder a torn mess. His vision became blurry from the 
pain, the wound feeling hot like molten iron. Ethan instead of 
rushing towards James had remained stunned, unable to comprehend 
what had just happened.

“Jesus, you shot Andy. Why the fuck did you just shoot Andy?” 
cried Ethan, as he tried to tend to his brother, rolling around 
the muddied ground, bleeding, and in pain. Ethan took out what 
few things remained from the medical kit, to at least stop the 
bleeding. James replied then with a deep, sombre voice:

“Because I want you to feel the pain, Ethan,” he said and took 
another clear shot at Andy. Andy’s body stopped moving as it 
jerked once and then became limp. Ethan saw Andy with a frowned 
stare and an entry wound in his forehead. Pieces of skull and 
brain matter were lying on the mud near his slightly deformed 
head. His brother, was dead.

He felt he was going to go mad at that instant, blood rising up 
in his head which was about to explode; James voice made him turn 
around and face him with the simple intent of killing him.

“Look at your dead brother, Ethan. God smiled upon you today, 
Ethan. Because you had time to see him one last time. I never 
did,” he said, shaking his head slowly, coolly.

Ethan cried out in anguish and slumped himself besides his 
brother’s body, unable to even stand upright. The upheaval of 
feeling was tremendous. Ethan felt everything all at once: 
infuriated and cheated, guilty and beaten down, ready to kill and 
simply waiting to die. He merely found the strength to ask with a 
crippled voice:

“Why? Whatever for?”

“For Enkele, my brother. My flesh and blood. My only hope in this 
world,” said James through grating teeth.

“I don’t.. I don’t understand,” said Ethan with a terribly 
confused voice, his face utterly broken. James swallowed hard and 
wiped some of the rain off his forehead. He almost shouted rather 
than talked:

“Kenya! It was you. The freedom fighters. It was your long range 
patrol, Ethan! It wasn’t about the lives of your men, though. You 
had a choice, and you still pulled the trigger. You killed my 
brother in cold blood. It was you!” he cried, the gun not waving 
an inch from his hand, aimed straight at Ethan’s chest.

Ethan stammered, barely able to find the words: “I didn’t.. I 
didn’t know. It was war, James, for God’s sake! How could I’ve 
known!” he yelled indignantly.

“But I did. I learned. Normally I could never have hoped to find 
out, but fate chose otherwise. And then I had no choice: I had to 
kill your brother. An eye for an eye, Ethan!” he cried with 
misplaced fervor.

“You mean, you knew? What did you know?” asked Ethan with a deep 
frown and a hint of fear in his voice.

“Everything!” cried James and laughed bitterly, tears running 
down his maddened eyes before he continued:

“I was their source inside Lagos, Ethan! And I knew things about 
them. What I didn’t know, I learned in the process. And so it 
came that I knew your brother wasn’t really missing. And then I 
wanted you to go after him, find him for me. Do all the dirty 
work.”

“Revenge? This was all about fucking revenge?” asked James with 
an angry cry. James replied calmly, with a seemingly 
ever-widening grin attached to his face.

“No. You’re right, you’re a smart man. It couldn’t be just about 
a feeling now, could it? A simple, pure feeling? There was more, 
I’ll admit. I saw the flames on the way here. A job well done. 
With Andy and Nicole dead, the French organization’s almost wiped 
out. The Biafrans will not hold out for long. Playing both will 
make me a rich, black man in a poor, African country.”

“Money and revenge? Is that fair game for the death of your 
brother? Of my brother?” asked Andy with real anger and fearful 
stressing his voice further.

“No, I try to think about it as compensation. My brother cannot 
return from the dead, but I’ve avenged him. And all that money 
will go a long way into making his dream come true, Ethan. A free 
Africa, a free Nigeria.”

“And you’ll do that by making a deal with the British? Isn’t that 
the devil?”

“Whoever I need to, Ethan. Even the white elephant will rot away 
and leave only his tusks behind,” he said as he pointed the gun 
squarely at Ethan’s head, ready to take a final, murderous shot.

“I thought you were a friend,” said Ethan who suddenly got up and 
started walking towards James, the gun still trained at him.

“Whatever gave you that impression?” asked James with a hushed 
laughter, the gun steady in his hands; his face determined, 
still.

“I don’t know, at least we might have been,” said Ethan as he 
stood right in front of James, no more than three feet away from 
the gun.

“It’s all happenstance, Ethan,” said James as he momentarily 
shrugged, the gun looking slightly away from Ethan.

And that was when Ethan sprang at him, swiveling his torso 
sideways. James’ gun went off with a clamor, but Ethan was 
already pushing the gun away with one hand and aiming for his 
neck with the other. James’ gaze went wild as he realised he had 
missed, but it curiously enough settled the next moment in a 
calm, peaceful stare; his carotid was shattered and he was 
drowning in his own blood.

James fell face down in the mud, the colour of blood lost in the 
reddish brown mud. Ethan took a moment, sighed and looked at 
James body with a peculiar mix of disdain, surprise and sadness. 
He then took another look at his brother’s body, and saw his 
vacant stare as rain kept falling on him. He sat down in the mud, 
and began to cry as if the rain that fell from above burned him. 
After a few more minutes, he came to grips and quietened down.

He took a deep, long breath and looked at the bodies once more. 
He saw the helicopter idly sitting by, and started laughing and 
crying, without being able to control his feelings; he felt he 
had finally let go of himself. He didn’t know how to fly; he 
suddenly realised he was still alive and couldn’t stop laughing 
at the absurdness of it all.

[vphantom:]

THE END



