Forge of Stones

by Vasileios Kalampakas




Copyright © 2011 Βασίλειος Καλαμπάκας, Vasileios Kalampakas

Published by Βασίλειος Καλαμπάκας, Vasileios Kalampakas

ISBN : 

Available in e-book form from http://www.stoneforger.com 

and the Amazon Kindle store.

You can reach the author at this e-mail address:



kalampakas@stoneforger.com



Written and typeset with the LyX document processor 

from http://www.lyx.org

Illustrations on the front and back cover made with the aid of: 

• Blender 3D software, http://www.blender.org

• Kerkythea renderer, http://www.kerkythea.net

• The GIMP, http://www.gimp.org





 with special thanks to my editor 

who should have acted more like the City of Pyr


Αφιερωμένο στη μητέρα μου.

Μπορεί να αδυνατεί να διαβάσει το βιβλίο,

αλλά άς διαβάσει τουλάχιστον την αφιέρωση.




“Θαρσεῖν χρή, φίλε Βάττε· τάχ᾽ αὔριον ἔσσετ᾽ ἄμεινον ἐλπίδες ἐν 
ζωοῖσιν, ἀνέλπιστοι δὲ θανόντες”

- Θεοκρίτου Ειδύλλια, Νομείς

Table of Contents

Part I Ex Principia
    Prologue
        The hunter
        The dancer
        The Curator
        The jester
        The boatman
        The Pilgrim
    The City of Pyr
        Dangers of the trade
        Nightveil
        Inescapable Reality
        Darkly lit night
        The marble road
        Under a livid sky
    Fulcrum
        A long and winding path
        Gossamer Twilight
        Of the Sun and Moon
        Machina Segnis
        The longest errand
Part II Per Ardua
    Wishes of the Unholy
        Circumstance and happenstance
        By the horns of the bull
        Meetings and Greetings
        Stirred within
        A fool's resolve
    Breaking point
        Two steps beyond
        Friend or foe
        All in good time
        Devoted Servants
Part III Ad Veritas
    The burial of the dead
        Memory and desire
        A dead tree gives no shelter
        Fear in a handful of dust
        The Sleeping Man
    A game of chess
        An inviolable voice
        A sermon of fire and blood
        The game board
        Homeward
    Epilogue


Ex Principia

Prologue

It is by fortune alone that man maintains his bountiful 
existence, unhindered by the forces beyond his grasp, unaware of 
what lies beyond. Once that veil is lifted, who can foretell the 
future? 

-Hilderich D'Augnacy, Visions of The Aftermath

  The hunter

The hunter felt the air thicken. He ventured a look towards the 
gathering storm. 

The wind started to gather into brief furious gusts, fallen 
golden leaves dancing around him. Fleets of scurrying animals 
could be heard, running for refuge, burrowing in whatever shelter 
the forest could provide. 

His prey seemed indifferent to the coming weather though. The 
tracks were heavy-laden, and steady, even purposeful. It wanted 
to be found. It was as if it was challenging him. 

He crouched low amidst a thick cluster of bush and peered into 
the ashen wall of birch trees, his senses on the edge, everything 
around him pulsing with intensity, his mind focused on his prey. 
He emptied his thoughts, and closed his eyes. He reached for the 
small pendant around his neck, a golden tipped arrow felling a 
silver eagle. With a silent prayer to God and a fire burning from 
within him, he darted off into the trees, the shadows they cast 
over his hooded figure almost failing to touch it. 

His feet carried him on a galloping pace, fast and steady, 
swiftly cutting through the forest, following the clear, fresh 
tracks. The scent he traced was still strange, neither like any 
animal or man he had met or heard of before. He paused to sample 
the soil, feel the ground with his hands. He tasted copper and a 
tingling sensation lingered on his tongue. He strung an arrow 
through his bow and felt exhilarated, brimming with a confidence 
he deserved well. The deeper he went into the woods, the stronger 
the expectation for the kill became. 

As his breathing became faster so did his pace, his form blending 
in with the forest like a blur. His chest and leggings in brown 
and dark green leathers, with the coppery scale mail overlaid 
made for perfect camouflage in the autumn woods. Silent, swift 
and deadly, he had the advantage. He had smeared his exposed 
flesh with fresh dirt and his bodice was treated with boar fat, 
to preserve the leather and cover up his human scent. 

As stealthy as possible, he followed a small stream that led to 
the east, to the Hollows. The tracks started to become faint, the 
soft dirt heavier and crisper. The scent grew mellow, the metal 
taste in his mouth waned. He was losing his prey. 

He lay still for a moment and took a westward look, towards the 
clearing from where he entered the forest. Above the forest 
ceiling he could make out the grim blue and black of the stormy 
clouds. Lightning flashed the scenery alight, the trees around 
him casting shadows like the fanged mouth of a terrible behemoth, 
menacing and inescapable. 

The trickle of the stream was drowned under an ominous thunder. 
The first drops of rain fell on his cape. He felt he was now 
losing the advantage. The scent of his prey would be washed away, 
his vision would be of little help in the chaos of a storm, the 
forest would be filled with distant shadows and all noise would 
be lost under the thunder and the falling rain.

Without a hint of sight, sound or smell, his chest caught fire. 
The hunter frantically searched for his foe, but then a second 
and third fiery sting brought him to the ground. His face was 
contorted with a soundless expression of pain and amazement. It 
felt like arrows had pierced his armor but there were no arrow 
stalks or heads. It mystified him, that he should die in such a 
fashion, never once seeing what or who took his life. The world 
around him became gray and he felt a rush of pain before his 
senses finally failed him. His breathing stopped, and with the 
forest ceiling occupying his view, the hunter exhaled laboriously 
and silently prayed to God for the last time.

  The dancer

She reveled in the darkly lit chambers, her form that of a 
swirling dervish, the locks of her hair mirroring the precious 
light with an intoxicating sheen of honey and brown, ethereal 
smell of roses and lavender pouring out of her skin. 

She moved as if the ground was a mere illusion to be disregarded, 
her arms faintly bent upwards as if praying, or caressing the 
lithe forms of young gods, and her face had the impression of 
unborn awe, mesmerizing to see, inviolate to the touch.

She danced to the sounds of incessantly beating drums, in 
patterns and rhythms deep and rumbling that thumped her very 
soul, following a melody of strings as clear as a mountain spring 
erupting, a fresh dew engulfing the chamber, and a band of flutes 
calling out to unseen spirits, as if a ritual of old was being 
performed for her pleasure alone.

The music reached a crescendo, a ground-shaking climax and she 
became frenzied with passion, exhuming a mystical air of love, a 
beacon of a haven for all the unloved ones, an unseen contract 
with a muse behind each tempting gesture. 

Her faint gossamer dress swirled and failed to contain her 
ethereal form in such a breathtaking way, that even the flames of 
the brazers around the chamber flickered in tune with her dancing 
form to cast shadows that seemed to have a life of their own.

The crowd around her was silent and still, wearing almost 
identical masks of brass, the few flames that illuminated the 
chamber adorning them with golden hues of honey and a glimmer of 
sunlight. 

A single man stood at the edge of the dancing stage, robed with 
heavy linen, his face unmasked for everyone to see, tears running 
down his cheeks, welling under his chin in an unwavering steady 
flow, his face a painful mix of sorrow and awe, his eyelids 
closed shut in a vein attempt to contain his tears.

At the climax of her dance, she laid her body down, planted her 
feet and hands to the stage, her back forming an arc. And then 
she convulsed in a familiar but unspoken way, the way of ecstasy, 
her pelvis moving to the rhythm of the drums, faster and faster, 
as if an invisible lover was being forced upon her. 

The music came abruptly to a stop and utter silence filled the 
chamber. She sagged to her knees, her hair concealing her face 
completely. The silence was deafening, the only sound her ragged 
breath. Then the unmasked man spoke while bowing solemnly:

“Celia, I lack the words. The Chorus weeps in adoration. Let 
everyone be witness to this moment: Celia danced the Edichoros, 
and the Gods were pleased. So says the Chorus.”

In a transient moment of still time, the crowd of masks said in 
one voice: “Aye”. As soon as the word was spoken, the masked men 
dispersed as if answering to a silent summons and melted into the 
shadows, as if they were never really there, as if they had been 
a mirage, a background for this dance alone. The dancer and the 
unmasked man still remained.

He extended his arms, palms facing upwards, a gesture to the 
dancer or mayhap the Gods themselves. She stood up on her bare 
feet slowly, her hands touching her thighs over her gossamer 
dress, strands of her hair upon her bare shoulders. He spoke more 
softly, as if not to be overheard, even though there was not a 
living soul around in earshot.

“Celia, my love. Come.”

At his words, she touched his palms and drew closer to him. She 
looked upon his face, wet with tears and lit by flickering 
flames, her hazel eyes still glittering with ecstasy, alight with 
enthusiasm, and yet forming a wizened look that belied her years.

“Amonas.”, she uttered his name with a feeling of relief.

“It is done. You need not worry anymore. Men and Gods alike will 
remember this night for all time.”, Amonas said sweetly while 
gently caressing her head.

“And you, will you cherish those tears?”, a faint smile forming 
on her mouth, a playful expression and a gleeful look on her 
eyes.

“Need you ask?”, his eyes darting all over her features, to her 
smooth hair, her sculpted nose, the lobes of her ears, her 
slender neck, her measured lips and back to her stare.

“I am only a woman, Amonas. I have to.”, her neck craning to meet 
his lips, as tall as he was.

“I'm not worthy of such a gift.”, said Amonas as he stood still, 
black eyes peering through her closed eyelids.

“Speak no more.”, Celia said and hushed him by touching his lips 
with hers, then embracing his neck with both hands, softly but 
steadfastly guiding him towards her.

Afterwards they made love on that very stage, the silence of the 
chamber broken only by the sound of sputtering candles and 
braziers.

  The Curator

A man dressed in dark crimson robes and a sky blue sash made 
haste up the keep's long winding staircase. Perspiration covered 
his craggy old leathery face, his gray bearded chin still awash 
with the wine he had spilled only moments earlier. 

"Not now, not here.Damn the fools, damn them!", he kept repeating 
to the deaf, heavy-set stone walls, with almost every breath. The 
flickering flame of the torch he held cast his form in shadows 
over the stones of the stair's steps, on the dank walls. The form 
of a stumbling, muttering old fool. Even the shadows seemed to 
mock him, crouching even lower than him as the staircase finally 
unwound onto the roof of the keep. 

"Why now, while I still draw breath?", said the old man as he 
caught his breath, and started off to find what it was he came 
looking for. As if long ago forgotten, he fumbled around the 
roof, while a lukewarm dusk gave way to a chilling, gloomy 
moonless night. 

He kept straightening his beard with one hand, while his eyes 
were closed, and his other hand was raised, a pondering finger 
waving in a hazy, uncertain rhythm. As if trying to catch up with 
a silent tune only he could hear. Suddenly, he opened his eyes 
and set off with his head intently searching the floor. 

The air smelled of liquorice and the burned wheat stalks of 
nearby farmsteads. Planting season. He looked annoyed, trying to 
pick up a loose cobblestone from the roof. It gave no purchase, 
and try as he might he could not so remove it. He grumbled a mild 
curse, unfitting of his Office, status, demeanor, or personality. 
But to hell with all that. It wouldn't matter soon, none of it 
would, he thought. 

Standing upright, he folded his arms and breathed deeply, his 
elbows sagging slightly, his chin almost touching his chest. He 
sighed, and then abruptly erupted with a flurry of curses, kicks, 
punches and stomps again quite unseemly for a person of his 
stature. 

A Curator. By mutual assent among his peers, not a very 
prestigious one, but nonetheless, a Curator. Forcing himself to 
calm down, he drew a few deep breaths before standing over one 
ledge from the roof and shouting, almost in a screech: 

"Hilderich!!Hilderich!" An answering shout came from somewhere 
below: "Over here master Olom, over here!" The curator leaned 
over the ledge, searching for a face to direct his ire at, to no 
avail. He shouted once more, throwing his fists wildly into the 
air.

“Hilderich, you mongrel! Fetch the keystone from my study, run 
like there's no tomorrow!”, said the curator and Hilderich 
complied smartly to the best of his abilities. A few moments 
passed then, and a lot of things happened at once. First, a few 
steps behind where the Curator stood, the air twisted and reality 
gave way to nothingness, where a large kind of slit formed 
suddenly and the world seemed as if made of a paper tapestry 
badly sewn together. The Curator felt a strange rush of stinging 
air, turned about slowly, and had time enough to yell one last 
time at his pupil:”Run now! Find the one I dared not!”

As Hilderich ran outside the small keep, his gaze locked with the 
despairing eyes of his master, whose last look implored him 
silently to live. A hooded form seemed to grab Curator Olom from 
his neck with a single armored hand and lift him over the keep's 
parapet.

Hilderic stood there for a moment transfixed, overtaken by the 
speed and incredulity of what was taking place. When the hooded 
figure turned its head slowly towards him, fear pierced his 
heart. When it threw the Curator down to his death, it was still 
looking at him, only now Hilderich was running, eyes wide with 
horror, hands gripping the keystone with white knuckles.

The hooded figure stood where the curator had been standing only 
moments earlier, the slit behind it now gone, as if it had been a 
trick of the eye. With scarcely a thought, it jumped off the 
keep's roof and landed on its two feet, barely registering the 
60-foot drop. As it turned to run after Hilderich, it paused 
instinctively after feeling the bloodied hand of the dying 
Curator tugging at his plated boot.

“Had to make sure first.”, said the curator through agonising 
pain and a broken jaw while clutching his pendant, when both him, 
the keep, and the figure trying to smash his head with his boot 
instantly became a thing of the past, bright white light suddenly 
filling the dusky plains accompanied by an eerie, unnatural, 
unnerving silence. 

Hilderich only felt a haze of feat and a tingling at the back of 
his head. He dared not stop or look back, he simply ran. And 
prayed.

  The jester

The grand audience hall was fabulously lit through grandiose 
arched windows on either side. Sunlight glistened off the brass 
and gold etched everywhere around the hall, from chandeliers to 
decorative ornaments, marked with the livery of the Castigator. 
Crests and banners engraved with family mottos, finely crafted 
from materials of the highest quality, hung in carefully 
positioned places around the hall, denoting their respective 
family's status, lineage, and nobility.

Sweet aromas of burnt incense, cinnamon and musk permeated the 
air, bouquets of freshly picked flowers from young maidens with 
the colors of the rainbow were abundantly strewn around in neat 
vases and edifices all around the thick marble pillars that 
supported the magnificently painted dome, depicting wondrous 
scenes from the history, mythology, and tradition of the Outer 
Territories.

A ruckus of tingling bells and a limerick tune of chords echoed 
in the vastness of the audience hall, a single tinny voice 
singing along:

Five pieces of gold that shone, and the sight of her alone

Another man atop his throne, how will he ever atone

Bloody hands reach for the tome, will he ever dare to come home?

This ballad may remind you of lore, I might even sound a bore

The heart of it still remains, all will always be the same

As long as clouds grace the sky, as long as He will die

The jester played out the last part of the tune, merrily dancing 
around the main hall, a wide smile seemingly permanently carved 
on his painted, multicoloured face. As he hit the last of the 
chords, he ended his performance with a wide curved bow towards 
the man who sat in the center of the audience throne, his sole 
spectator, and waited there, for a few moments, until he heard a 
morose voice:

“I tire of you too easily these days, Perconal. You used to be 
more, ah.. Fun.”, said the voice that belonged to the Castigator 
of the Outer Territories.

“I could do the leap-frog again, sire.”, the jester countered 
with a hopeful proposition.

“That only seemed funny at the time since you leap-frogged onto 
the Patriarch and the Procastinator Militant. Never saw a 
Procastinator Militant fumble for his sword before.”, the 
Castigator responded absent-mindedly, his head resting on his 
left hand, a goblet of wine on his right one.

“No crowd today, sire. Who could I leap-frog onto then?”, the 
jester insisted while fumbling with his crown of bells, his smile 
turning into an ever more persistent grin.

“No crowd indeed. I believe I tire of crowds as well lately.”

“Perhaps .. an orgy?”, proferred the jester, shamelessly making a 
rude pelvic thrust in the air, his hands mockingly grasping at an 
imaginary waist.

The Castigator seemed to offer a little time to the idea, but a 
disapproving nod of his head made the jester suddenly wear the 
face of a crying, hurt man, shoulders slumped, hands knead 
together, as if pleading.

“No, Perconal. I'm not in the mood.”

“Then games sire! Games are always fun! And a challenge! Or are 
you, afraid?Surely not!”, the jester said in a booming voice, and 
then exploded into a series of mock athletic gestures, like 
running, jumping and javelin throwing, flexing pitiful muscles, 
kneeling and offering an invisible crown to the Castigator, 
looking as solemn and expressionless as a grave.

“Games, you say?”, the Castigator seemed briefly intrigued, and 
now rested his head on both hands, his voice slighty muffled.

While he seemed to ponder the idea, the jester scurried 
soundlessly near the table where the goblet of wine lay, and with 
a wide grin forming on his shallow face once again, he 
mischievously reached for it. The Castigator took notice, but 
said nothing. Eyes darting to and fro, the jester sipped some 
wine off the goblet, painted lips smearing its bronze, delicately 
decorated surface, with white powder and red and violet paint. As 
the jester closed his eyes and savoured the exquisite vintage, he 
felt icy steel hard against his throat.

“Feuillout usually leaves too dry an aftertaste, don't you think?”
, the Castigator said to the jester, in all seriousness, his 
knife in hand, set against the jester's throat, edge flashing 
bright from the sunlight.

“Sire. I transgressed.”, replied the jester, any hint of grin or 
smile cast out instantly.

“That you did, Perconal. I hate it when you do that. I thought 
more of you.”, said the Castigator in an emphatically 
disappointed tone of voice.

“I was tempted sire. I haven't tasted wine, any wine, since .. I 
really can't remember. Truthfully.”, the jester almost cried out 
the last few words, his head bowing in submission, his hands 
fumbling with his chordus, careful not to touch any strings lest 
he make a note.

“Well, no matter. Tomorrow you will be castigated, forty lashes 
should be enough. People have been hanged for less. Water is so 
scarce, yet you would risk your life to indulge in wine tasting, 
no less. I think I'm growing a soft spot for you, Perconal.”

“Thank you sir. Can I at least have another sip, sire? It is so 
sweet.”, said the jester with a half-formed smile and hint of a 
gesture towards the goblet.

“Another sip? Ha! There you go Perconal, you actually made me 
laugh. Ha ha!”, a loud laugh and a smile formed on the 
Castigator's usually bored, flat face, before throwing the goblet 
on a nearby column, wine spilling all over the black, shiny, 
green veined granite floor.

“There you go! Lap it up, you fool! Leave none for the maidens!”, 
shouted the Castigator, a furious laughter welling up, unable to 
contain it. And Perconal, the Jester, helplessly ran about the 
marble floor, trying to sip as much of the spilled wine as he 
could, his bells and jingles ringing and echoing in the empty 
hall.

  The boatman

“'Tis none of my business, young sir, but given the chance and 
all since I don't get many passengers through here this ferry, so 
far away from the Basilica Road and all, might I ask where do you 
come from? Beg your pardon.”, the boatman ventured in a fast 
talkative manner, his sight affording his passenger a casual 
gaze, his hands on the boat's rows beating them in and out of the 
water in a calm, slow rhythm.

“Nicodemea. Up north. Is this safe? The fog, I mean.”, the young 
passenger answered in an absent-minded fashion, his question 
trailing with a hint of worry and nervousness, his eyes averted 
from the surrounding fog and water, focused instead on the boat 
itself, as if an invisible wall made such an effort mundane.

“Why shouldn't it be? The water's dead still, and there no rocks 
on the other side, just green grass, young sir. You carry nothing 
more than your person, so missing the platform shouldn't be a 
bother. A simple matter, no worries, be there before you know it 
too. Looking for a mule or a horse, any chance? Long way ahead, 
ain't I right?”

“But the fog. Isn't it ..”, the young man hesitated with a sour 
face. 

“Thick? Damn thick fog this time of the year, lifts at around 
noon, sets in before dusk. Pretty normal lad, come to think about 
it, didn't catch your name now. Care to share in a friendly 
discussion? Reilo's the name”, the ferry man interjected with a 
smile, part glossy silver, part cavernous lack of teeth.

“Ahm, I'm Molo. Thessurdijan Molo.”, the young man said after a 
small pause and some fidgeting with his cloak and belt before 
revealing a gloved hand and proffering it to the boat handler.

“Can't right now lad, kinda caught up rowing, remember? But very 
much obliged to meet you, young sir. I'm Reilo, Reilo the 
boatman. Don't get many nice people like you around here.”, the 
ferry man nodded in acknowledgement, underlining the fact he was 
rowing by enthusiastically flapping the rows ineffectually above 
the water's surface, before he added with a note of apprehension:

“Not to sound too promiscuous sir, but what's a nice gent like 
you doing crossing these no-good-parts for?”

“Well you are quite talkative a fellow aren't you, Reilo? I'm a 
student, on an errand, that's all.”, the young man rearranged his 
cloak, and peered past the boat man, through the fog, without 
success of glimpsing anything else than a grey oozing atmosphere 
and a thin shiny sliver of murky water.

“Must be quite an errand to travel that far,eh?”

“That, it is indeed.”, said the young man sounding suddenly 
grave. The fog started to lift about then, as a light breeze 
rushed around them, the feeling of chilled clean air a welcome 
change on their cheeks.

“There you are Molo sir, fog's lifting. Clockwork, eh?”, the 
gaping mouth of the man lenting little of the associated 
perfection to the word. 

“If you say so Reilo.”

“And once you're on the other side, how 'bout a getting some rest 
for your aching feet, eh? I got a cousin, fine lad, comfy bed, 
real straw and all, sensible prices mind you.”, the boat man 
pressed on the advantage while rowing the last few yards towards 
the shore.

“I'm looking to keep on moving, thank you.”, Molo answered 
politely.

“Then a horse might come in handy? Got a nephew has a couple o' 
fine workhorses, could sell you one off cheap if I put a word 
too.”, Reilo blinked one eye in a way that offered one too many 
wrong connotations.

“I won't be needing any of that, thank you Reilo.”, said Molo, 
stressing his expressed gratitude as well as his gentle patience 
by accenting his thanks.

“Alright sir, hope no regrets later on.”, said the boatman, 
somewhat disappointed his sales pitch didn't hit off as planned.

“Believe me, no regrets.”, answered Molo, and stepped off the 
boat and onto the river's shore, his one hand on his knapsack, a 
walking rod in the other one. He picked up a brisk pace and soon 
he met the road going east. He checked his few belongings one 
last time as a late afterthought and set off once again. 

  The Pilgrim

His feet were sore. Cold air rushed to meet his face, the flimsy 
cloak offering a little less than adequate protection. Tall grass 
grew on either side of the rocky path through the hills. The 
cries of a crow accompanied the howling gusts of the wind, the 
sky a bleak grey, just like the days before. He looked around, 
searching for some kind of shelter at least until the wind died 
down. He knew he had to rest soon, his body ached and his legs 
felt like lead.

He spotted a large bark of a tree, a large oak, hollowed out, 
grizly and old. He made a rush of straining effort to reach it 
quickly, further up the hill. A little more pain and then he 
could sit for a change. Perhaps even sleep, cold wind or not.

The oak was a perfect fit, large enough to lay down with only a 
small opening a lean man had to go through sideways. He was lean. 
And hungry, cold, tired and groggy. As he put down his knapsack, 
he grimaced with pain from stiff muscles. He lay down, on the 
ground, and felt like all his cares and troubles in the world 
were suddenly lifted, he felt light as a feather, numbness 
encircling his senses.

He stretched his feet and looked up, a small crack on the bark 
letting the sky seep through. His sight wandered to the clouds 
passing overhead, grey tints on blue black matresses, like 
forlorn shapes running through a twisting, foaming river. 

He closed his eyes, and muttered a prayer, thanking his God for 
the timely shelter, feeling he was being looked after, cared for, 
like his pilgrimage was an extraordinary thing, a matter of grave 
importance, a mission he had to carry out, a mission worthy of 
every little help. All he had to do was have faith, and he would 
persevere, and his God would keep a watchful eye, and provide.

Soon, he fell asleep, laying there seemingly dead as the wood 
around him. He dreamt, but he would remember nothing when he 
would wake up. His chest rised and fell in a slow, laborious 
rhythm. And all around the oak, the grass bend where the wind 
blew. And the crows had stopped their crying, some of them 
perched on the very same oak.

A few drops of rain started falling, and pretty soon it turned 
into a drizzle, thin and almost refreshing, a gift of shower the 
earth accepted eagerly. He was dry, and he was warm. He thought 
to himself, “God always provides” and fell into a dreamless 
sleep.

The City of Pyr

“It is the will of the Gods for man to live as such, to be 
humbled by his misgivings and sins, to be laid low. For it was 
man's destiny to live free as he desired, he would sooner rather 
later turn upon his own, his desires a fatal trap, a wretched 
condition any man worth living strives to keep in check daily, 
with prayer and the Law as his guide. For without the Law, what 
is man but a cunning animal?”

- Archminister Feinglot XXIV, Porfyria Voluntas, Vol. II

  Dangers of the trade

The first thing that assaulted Hilderich's senses were the 
smells. Lost in a smelting crowd of city people, the smells were 
overpowering: the acrid sweat of unkempt horses mingled with 
rosewood and cinder scraps from the carpenters' workshops, heavy 
spices like cinammon and uwe flared his nostrils while an essence 
of oils and meats wandered through the air, the smell of filthy 
beggars waxing and waning around every corner, its temporary 
absence filled in with incense from close by temples and 
intoxicating perfumes from passing, illustrious carriages.

The mix of sounds though felt familiar, reminding him of bees 
buzzing through the meadows back home, whole swarms feeding on 
the nectar of roleva flowers, over a golden carpet swaying gently 
under the evening gale. Now and then some voices stood taller 
than the rest, hints of selling wares and the ever present and 
watchful Ministers announcing laws, edicts and verdicts, 
punishments, and religious texts, all for the good of the people. 
The cacophony was further accented by the clacking sounds of 
hooves, pig cries and beggars' pleas.

Tall arches overhead cast angled shadows everywhere, the 
encircling walls of the buildings like sheer cliffs towering over 
the palpitating mass of people, animals and all the rest that 
could not readily fit into either category. Blue-grey rock and 
lime mortar dominated the market's landscape, the wear-torn 
cobblestones of the streets a hazy washed white wherever the grit 
and mass of people allowed a small glimpse. And street after 
street, wall after wall, bronze engraved plaques embellished with 
holy texts and iconography hung on arches, balconies and posts, 
in favor of the Gods, in memory and glory of the Castigator and 
the Pantheon.

If the market was the heart of the city as its inhabitants 
claimed, then what was said of Pyr being a heartless bitch seemed 
at once both right and wrong. Every single cast, class and type 
of man was to be found here, buying, selling, begging, stealing, 
killing, blackmailing and dying. There were parts of the market 
where the suns had never shown upon them since the city was 
built, dark corners where those who entered usually did not 
reappear, and when they did, blood not their own had been 
spilled.

The beggars had become part of the landscape, blinds, invalids, 
all sorts of castaways and society's detritus, tugging away at 
embroidered hems, pleading with sore voices and grotesque faces. 
Those of them who bothered the wrong people time and again were 
soon beaten or stabbed to death by lackeys and guardsmen, left 
for dead on the spot, attracting the ire of honest, hard working 
merchants and artisans for not having the decency to crawl away 
from near their workshops and stalls and die someplace else where 
they would not put off potential customers.

But this was at the same time the place where everything of 
import came to be; this was where produce from the surrounding 
fields and indeed neighboring territories was gathered and sold 
to those who could afford it. This was where artisans created 
common everyday wares, materials and tools as well as delicate, 
commisioned works of art, this was the place were deals and 
partnerships were entered and broken, contracts signed and 
carried out, where everyone, whether a layman or a noble, had 
some kind of business. 

This was the place were the Ministers' chants were heard every 
day, preaching, teaching, and enforcing the religion that is Law. 
The market, in that sense, was a living representation, a 
miniature of where and how the people of Pyr lived their lives, 
and even how some of them lost them.

Hilderich was drifting along the current of people flowing 
incessantly through the market, occassionally bumping onto 
variously indifferent or protesting men, taking care of the 
treads of carts, running heralds and practicing pickpockets. He 
could hear the Minister from the next street calling out a long 
list of names, and his eye caught two men in an unlit alley 
cracking another man's skull, their shadowy outline briskly 
contrasting with the lit background of the large street behind 
the small alley. It seemed dishearteningly clear that this was 
business as usual here, that some code of practice had been 
followed and the formalities obeyed, killing a faceless man 
hidden away from the light of the suns.

His almost random course took him closer to the Minister's spot, 
an elaborate fountain made of granite, engraved with scenes of an 
historic battle from the Heathen times he could remember learning 
about as a child, but could not immediately recognise. The 
Minister held a distaff on one hand, heavy-looking and oblique, 
and was still reading names off a long unwinding scroll fitted in 
some kind of extendable hook on the distaff that seemed 
purposefully designed. He wore a long robe made of violet velvet 
with a gold embroidered hem and a silver-lined crest of the Outer 
Territories on his chest, a small black cap with a single emerald 
denoting his office, and both of the robe's arms were filled with 
holy texts written in Lingua Helica, stitched in purple silk. 

The ministers Hilderich had known made offerings to the Gods, 
upheld the Law and taught it. These holy men seemed somewhat 
distasteful, one might even call them pompous. He wondered what 
Master Olom's remark would have been and he was reminded of the 
duty he had yet to fulfill. He ignored the small mass of people 
gathered around the Minister as well as the rest of the still 
unfolding list of names, and lost himself once more in the throng 
of people, his senses acutely attuned by now, searching for a 
sign that would bring him a step closer to finding the one man he 
was searching for ever since that fateful night.

The thought of the word conjured in his mind a brief glimpse of 
that night, an almost morbid recollection of what had happened. 
He had barely had time to stop and ponder the minutiae, while 
trying to get to Pyr as fast as possible, the place where he had 
to start his possibly vain search. The more he thought about what 
had exactly happened, the more he failed to grasp how everything 
had come crashing down like an avalanche, one moment of perfect 
stillness followed by sheer and utter terror, an unavoidable 
terrible fate. Such was the end of Master Olom. 

Even though he would not admit to it, he felt he somehow cheated 
death on that night, that it should have been him rather than his 
Master, or at least he should have had the same luck, at least as 
a matter of principle. Thankfully, wise Olom, though considered a 
relative unknown, with a handful of friends and none in high 
places, thought otherwise. 

Never pausing in his stride, Hilderich closed his eyes and 
clutched the keystone his master had entrusted him with, ever so 
tightly. He had taken extra precautions ever since he had to 
carry the strange artifact with him. He always kept it on his 
person, and had fashioned a small metal holder with a small but 
sturdy chain fastened to his thick leather belt, resembling more 
the small cage of a sparrow, made of thin sheets of metal he had 
scrounged off the stables of an inn, the second day since he ran 
away from that explosion. 

That inexplicable explosion of light and heat, like hundreds of 
oil barrels and steamers going off at once, only neither was to 
be found even a day's ride away, much less unaccountably stored 
there at the keep. It could be something Ancient, it must have 
been something Ancient. But his knowledge of the Old People and 
their ways and artifacts was still little, and as far as he knew, 
no such examples were in master Olom's care, nor had he seen or 
heard any hint of such awesomely destructive or powerful items 
during the last four years. But, what else could it be? Unless 
the Gods had revealed themselves in blessed fury and might. 
Wouldn't they have spared his master?

He let out a sigh without noticing, his head slightly slumped, 
his expression sour. He had been so deeply engrossed in thought, 
that when he ventured a look he found himself utterly lost with 
no sense of direction, in a part of the market conspicuously 
calm, lacking the overwhelming mass of people that offered a 
false sense of safety that was nevertheless more welcome than 
none at all.

The distant din of the market proper could still be heard, but he 
had walked quite a distance and the crowd of people looked a 
little more than a milling sea of garments and bustling feet. 
With the corner of his eye he glimpsed a pair of shady figures 
was stalking him, probably had been for a while, and were just 
about to gank up on him.

Hilderich was not a stoutly built fellow, and did not consider 
himself neither a man of action or capable of putting up a 
serious fight. But he had faith in his master, and his quest 
preceded everything else. He had to preserve his life in order to 
preserve the keystone, so he chose the most viable and logical 
course of action under the circumstances: he ran like hell.

He suddenly darted off towards the direction of what seemed to be 
a large bell tower, and ventured a slight look over his left 
shoulder to get the bearing of the figures behind him. They were 
just beyond hand's reach when he started running, his heavy cloak 
waving wildly, feet scurrying on the cobbled street.

One of them cursed profoundly and the other one shouted at him to 
stop, then both of them went on a chase after him. Hilderich went 
right and left through alleys and larger streets, sometimes under 
shadow and others under light, trying to keep the tower that 
somehow seemed a safe place in sight, while at the same time 
trying to give his pursuers the slip.

The sound of boots on stone was still unmistakeably behind him, 
and sweat had started to pour out of his body. He went past small 
houses, inns, and squares, while fleeing for what seemed his 
life, and curiously enough his mind registered that not a 
housewive or elder man ventured more than an indifferent look at 
the chase taking place in front of their eyes, only the children 
paused in their play to look, point and giggle excitedly.

His feet started to ache and his breathing became short and 
almost painful, fire welling up in his lungs. He knew he could 
not keep this up for long, and the tower he had set out to reach 
did not seem much closer than earlier. He ventured a slight look 
over his right shoulder, and couldn't see either of the figures 
chasing him. He listened intently for a few moments and could not 
make out the distinct noise of chasing boots, only rather his own 
two feet galloping achingly. He allowed himself a drop in pace, 
easing his breathing, coming to a slow stop near a shadowy wall, 
bent over with hands on his knees, throwing scared looks around, 
hoping that the chase was over now.

“Don't ever run off like that again.”, the man's gruff voice 
seemed to come through the wall of stone, but he was only hiding 
deeper into the shadow of an adjoining alley, Hilderich 
instinctively turning around, seeing a flash of light hinting at 
an unsheathed knife or sword, its wholeness under the cover of 
dark.

For a moment he drew enough of a breath to dart off again in 
another random direction, slipping away at the last minute like 
before, but then he noticed the other man, a red-haired bearded 
brute, pieces of armor showing underneath his shabby clothes, a 
jagged knife in hand, standing a few paces to his right, 
steadfastly covering both ways out of his predicament.

With no real options left, Hilderich suddenly leapt on the 
nearest man, blade or not, in what could only really be a 
selfless last act of defiance, thinking he was soon about to die, 
failing his master for the last time. Nevertheless, he would give 
his all, and while he leapt his gathered his fist aiming for the 
man's head, trying to deliver as much pain as possible. The punch 
never connected.

The man still standing inside the shadows expertly and calmly 
took a step back and bend his back slightly, with Hilderich's 
wild effort going awry, hitting nothing but air, losing his 
balance and making a counter-step. Just as he could feel his face 
freeze in astonishment, he brought his other hand backwards in 
order to try and have another go at punching his assailant. He 
did not manage that in any event though, because he winced and 
doubled-up at the paralyzing pain from the knee that had firmly 
and powerfully connected with his belly.

He felt his stomach empty and his sight go blurry, a hint of red 
clogging his sight, his feet going limp and heavy, his breathing 
shallow. The last thing he saw before he passed out, was a 
grinning mouth and the icy clear flash of a steel blade.




  Nightveil

She woke up with cold sweat on her forehead, her temples damp, 
locks of her hair smack against her face. She drew the bedsheets 
against her body, curling up onto the empty side of her bed. She 
felt the unborn child inside her stir uncomfortably, as if awoken 
with terror by the same dream. She laid her hands on her belly, 
gently caressing it, feeling the child inside calm down, freely 
flowing in an inner, warm sea of love and protection. 

The unborn fell silent, his tiny heart barely stating it was 
alive and well inside his mother's womb. The mother on the other 
hand, was still visibly shaken from her vision. She saw rivers of 
blood engulfing her and her child, and fires bright as the sun 
all around her. She saw Amonas' head on a pike, along with 
hundreds of other men's heads, hellishly put on display in a gory 
show, seething masses of animals rather than men cheering with 
voices that echoed like the very pits of damnation.

The hair on her back was raised and she felt as helpless as a 
thawing flake of snow, unable to comfort herself and lay back to 
sleep, the shocking images of her sleep having burned through her 
waking heart and mind. She stood up with some effort, and with 
slow attentive paces, made it to the balcony. The night was 
invitingly chilly, offering a crystal clear sky, the few clouds 
overhead like thin gossamer webs the Gods might have woven to 
catch a falling star.

She peered out over the never-sleeping city, its market always 
alight with torches and large common pyres, strange shadows 
flickering on walls, fleetingly illuminated faces with blank 
expressions, as if in a haze of ecstasy, whirling in the rhythmic 
dance of the city like strands of cloth spun in the air.

The Ministry Tower and the Disciplinarium were lit as bright as 
day, proud banners flung high and wide, a procession of ministers 
underway, and another festivity in the Disciplinarium's garden 
that sported tricks of fire and light was taking place, washing 
the rest of the city with golden red hues and splashes of green 
and blue light, as if there was not a care in the whole world.

The rugged brown stonework of the balcony felt rough under her 
smooth touch. She moved her hand unconsciously across the stone 
while gazing at the city, vainly searching for her loved one 
among the sands of men. Her hand seemed to dance, ebbing and 
flowing to a melody even she herself couldn't hear, like 
conducting an invisible chorus of spirits of old inhabiting this 
very stone.

She closed her eyes momentarily and the image of Amonas' head 
haunted her, his blood still pouring hot. She held her breath and 
moved her lips in silent prayer, wishing her dream was nothing 
more than simple fear of what lay ahead. Her faith should not 
waver, she must be strong enough for Amonas' sake, and for their 
unborn child. Let the Gods carry them forward and all will be as 
it should be.

Her child stirred once more, soothing her soul and bringing a 
faint smile to her face. She went back inside, laid herself on 
her bed, her hands resting on the still empty side, and slept in 
peace, her face a statue of serenity. She dreamt no more that 
night.




  Inescapable Reality

“He's coming around.”

“About time then.”

Hilderich knew he was still alive. The men's voices echoed 
faintly in his throbbing head, pain stabbing him in the back of 
his neck, muscles stiff from prolonged unconsciousness. He opened 
his eyes and blinked furiously, his eyesight adjusting to a 
brightly lit chamber, sunlight pouring from tall arched glass 
windows and a radiant dome above. 

A small table occupied the middle of the room and a flimsy 
looking cardboard adorned the opposite wall. The two men that had 
attacked him were looking at him, the bearded brute standing up 
with his hands in his pockets, the man with the gruff voice 
sitting down at the table, a beam of light partly obscuring his 
face, dust motes whirling silently in the air.

Hilderich lay in a small stone cot carved into a recess of a far 
wall. The cot felt uncomfortable, hos body protesting slightly to 
his efforts of movement. He flexed his arms and legs momentarily, 
and realised he was not bound or restrained in any way. 
Puzzlement showed on his face, and then the man who had bested 
him addressed him:

“You were out for almost a day. I am sorry we had to take 
somewhat extreme measures, but we had to make sure you 
disappeared properly. Giving us the run did not help, so we had 
to make it look like you were being mugged. Hence the headache. I 
apologise for being rather rough.”, the man's voice gruff but 
genuinely polite, almost friendly, his words followed by a faint 
smile and condescending nod.

“Dunno if that put any sense innim though.”, the bearded man 
grumbled under his breath audibly enough, regarding Hilderich 
with a look akin to contempt.

“Philo..Please.”, said the man in the friendly voice, who 
appeared to be the better of the brutish red-haired man.

Hilderich noted the brute's name was Philo, and watched him for 
moment as he made a snorting sound and then crossed his hands 
across his chest, leaned against a wall and quieted down, as the 
other man had requested. The polite man continued:

“My friend here thinks you are somewhat dim and unforgivingly 
naive for a place like Pyr. That remains to be seen. I think you 
will prove very useful indeed.”, said the man, eyes level with 
Hilderich's who was now sitting upright on the small cot.

“Who are you people?I thought you'd kill me.Why make me 
disappear? Why am I here?”, the look on Hilderich's face was 
contorted, eyebrows bent together, his puzzlement even more 
evident than before.

“You mean why did we not? Again, I apologise. My name is Amonas, 
and this, as you know already, is Philo. Let's leave it at that 
for now. There are things I can and things I cannot explain to 
you, at least for the time being. You had to disappear because 
you were at risk of being found by people with a different 
agenda. Once I make myself clear, you will understand it was 
necessary for more significant reasons, as well as for your 
protection. Soon enough, you will have to reach a decision.”

“What kind of decision? Am I being threatened? You did not bind 
my hands. Am I a prisoner?”

“You are in no way a prisoner. We just needed to talk to you in 
safety. Please, hear what I have to say first. It is a matter of 
grave importance, and it involves the keystone in your 
possession.”, Amonas' tone carrying a hint of pleading and 
urgency, his words almost jarred against each other.

At the mention of the keystone, Hilderich was left wide-eyed.

“Aye, we knew.”, Philo added, a sever look cast upon Hilderich.

They knew? Since when? Thoughts kept rushing through his mind, 
what he should ask and what he might reveal that he should not. 
Was there indeed real danger here? Were they telling him the 
truth? Was he being safeguarded? He instinctively reached for the 
chain on his belt but it was not there. They had taken the 
keystone. Had he failed already? Was there a point to all this? 
His face took on an expression of silent horror, mouth 
frantically opening and closing with no sound coming out, like a 
fish out of the water, the spasms of death upon it.

Hilderich shouted in a trembling voice that could have been 
mistaken for a shriek:

“Give it back! Thieves! You are common thieves!”

He was standing upright now, his head frantically turning from 
Amonas to Philo and back, casting looks of urgent accusation, 
wide-eyed and tense. He regained a measure of self-control, and 
clasped his hands together and closing his eyes said in a clear, 
level voice:

“Please. Give it back.”

Amonas and Philo were exchanging dumbstruck looks, Hilderich's 
outburst having caught them by complete surprise. When there was 
time enough for them to answer, all they could do was break into 
a hearty fit of laughter. Philo, while still laughing managed to 
speak:

“Thieves! And the.. `Please'? Listen to yourself, lad.”

Amonas cut in and took a beleaguered Hilderich by the arm, a 
calming, reassuring voice issuing from his mouth:

“Fear not. We mean no ill. We consider you a friend, and if you'd 
choose so, a brother. The keystone is safely with me, I have it 
on my person. Here.”, and Amonas unclasped his cloak to reveal 
the keystone and chain safely tucked away in a pocket on his 
leather bodice, the chain safely attached to a ringed metal belt.

The sight of the keystone calmed Hilderich somewhat, but he still 
protested, eyes darting around, a feeling of hurt in every look:

“What kind of friend hunts you down, knocks you out, and then 
robs you of your most valuable posessions?”

“Your new ones do, at least the first time around. Please, 
listen. We know about what happened to your master. It pains me 
as well, I knew Olom personally.”, Amonas let that sink in a bit, 
recalling pleasant memories, and then carried on:

“There is trouble brewing ahead in the Outer Territories. What 
happened that night at your keep was not a singular or chance 
event. The keystones of all Curatoriums are being gathered, with 
or without their Curators willingness. In some cases, like yours 
rather violently. And the timing is too perfect to be a mere 
coincidence. We cannot yet ascertain exactly who is orchestrating 
this, but we have a pretty good idea.”, Amonas glanced sideways 
at Philo, who nodded in agreement.

“You knew my master? Do you have proof? Who is 'we'? Are you some 
sort of group? Organisation? A cult?”, Hilderich did not like 
what he was hearing, and the people in front of him were not 
making much sense, what he heard felt very thin indeed.

“I knew him and loved him dearly. I'll show you proof, soon 
enough. We are not a cult. Especially not a cult. You could call 
us a group. We call ourselves Kin. Or Brotherhood of Old. Or 
Oldfolk. We come by many names, some intentional, some 
unintentional. Some to help us stay hidden, some to help us raise 
support. Yours, for instance.”

“You want my support? And this is how you go about asking people? 
Ganking up on them in the middle of the street? Support for what? 
Clubbing people in the head?!”, Hilderich's tone was incredulous 
and he was about to go into a fit of hysterical laughter. Philo 
seemed especially displeased with his tone and remarks, while 
Amonas stayed calm and resolute, determined to make his point.

“We want your support in order to claim back our lands, overthrow 
the tyranny of the Castigator and expose the hateful lie that is 
Pantheon.”, Amonas words came out like the rush of an unstoppable 
river, ready to wash away everything that might dare to stand in 
its path. He sounded earthenly solid and unyielding, and 
Hilderich was too impressed to actually register what he had just 
said.

“Well, that is.. Did you just.. But, that's heresy! And high 
treason!”, Hilderich almost stammered the words aloud, unable to 
contain his shock.

“Heresy is nothing but the leash that binds our blind brethren. 
Treason is the act of paying tribute to false gods, letting our 
Kin of Old fade like ghosts with nothing left to haunt..”

Amonas was in an instant transformed in Hilderich's eyes. What 
seemed like a calm, reasonable person, yet mysterious to the 
point of incredulity, had given its place to a fiery zealot of 
some misguided cult of heretics, hot embers instead of eyes, a 
fanatic with an untenable goal.

Hilderich wasn't sure of what to say to such a man, but he 
settled for what felt like the truth of things:

“You're crazy then? Deranged. Or just very misguided. But no. You 
would have to be crazy for all that to run through your head 
without bursting at the seams.”

“Am I Hilderich? Or have you been played like a fool? Like I was 
before I saw truth, and righteousness. Like Philo was when he was 
still a killer for hire? It is shocking, I admit it. But by the 
end of the day, I promise you you'll see the truth of things as 
well. If you place any value in it, you will be given sight and 
hearing anew, and you'll be ready to decide for yourself. Become 
brothers, or stay just friends.”

“You seem too confident in what you say, and maybe you are a 
special breed of crazy. But I cannot even begin to imagine how 
you can prove that these aren't the rumblings of a madman, that 
Gods forbid, our religion is a lie. I might confess, I find some 
of the Castigator's and the ministers decisions and punishments 
harsh and unbefitting, but I dare not judge their wisdom, or the 
Law as we have been taught it. It is one thing to doubt the 
people that uphold the Law, and quite another to judge what is 
Holy Law, inviolate and heaven-sent.”

Hilderich was now exuding an air of authenticity and oratory 
skill, dressed with a rarely exhibited confidence, resembling an 
almost staunch belief. He seemed like he knew he was right, and 
Amonas wrong.

Amonas grinned, nodding his head to Hilderich, then looking up to 
meet his almost defiant gaze, and telling him in his gruff, 
steady voice:

“The seed of doubt is already sown in your soul, Hilderich. 
Tonight it shall spring to bear fruit at last. It is a good sign, 
for I believed you would be too unwilling to see the truth, but 
this may yet prove not to be the case.”

“I still think you are madmen. Suppose it is true, the Law and 
the Gods are a lie? What then? What is the truth? And if you, for 
the case of argument, succeed in your purpose? What replaces 
everything we live by every day? Are you going to just blink and 
overthrow the Castigator, and the army and all the nobles who 
will stand against you? Or do you cherish a fantasy where all but 
a few will join your cause, and no blood will be spilled in your 
day of triumph?”

“You are more of a thinker than I had believed, Hilderich. Above 
all, a man of logic. Your own questions will be answered in due 
time. A bit of patience will go a long way. And in any case, we 
can't allow you to leave just yet, not before you witness what 
will invariably change your opinion, for better or worse. You 
will come to see that we are not crazy, and that we know that 
chaos and mayhem will erupt once we decide the time has come to 
act. I have no fantasies and will bear no misgivings: blood will 
be spilled inevitably, but not in vain. These are not the 
endeavours of bloodthirsty warmongers or power-hungry dissidents, 
Hilderich. We are hope incarnate.”

“If you say so, it must be true, then.”, Hilderich's tone mocking 
beyond the point of insult. That remark made Philo move and 
fidget with suppressed anger, shooting pleading looks at Amonas, 
clearly intent at putting the audacious little man in his place 
by way of mild violence. Amonas would have none of that and 
dismissed Philo's silent protests with an outstretched hand, 
replying in a serious and honest tone of voice:

“I can only force you to remain until that promise is delivered. 
Then you can freely go your own way, but the keystone will be 
kept with us.”

“So not much of an offer, but rather a blackmail. I can go, but 
the keystone stays? And you ask me to trust in you under these 
conditions? Would you think differently if you were in my spot?”

“I have been in a similar spot, and no, I did not think 
differently. And that is why I believe you'll be our brother by 
the first light of dawn tomorrow.”, Amonas smiled heartily for 
Hilderich to see, but his expression remained distant and 
withdrawn.

“You place too much on belief and court with arrogance, Amonas. I 
don't like all of this one bit. But I seem to be at your mercy, 
as a matter of fact.”

“You will prove more valuable and insightful than I had imagined, 
Hilderich. It is exactly that false belief and that vaunted 
arrogance that we seek to expose, and since you place no value in 
those, I consider you a brother already, a man free of those 
poisons.”

“We shall see, but don't bet on it.”

Hilderich sat down on the cot once again, hands on his knees, 
seemingly resigned to his fate but showing a somewhat proud stand 
over his beliefs, his body stance and facial expression emitting 
a message that he would not succumb to such underhanded tactics, 
if not in essence, as a matter of principle.

“I am not a gambling man Hilderich, you need not worry. There is 
still some time ahead of us. You must be famished. Do you wish to 
eat now? I know we have been less than welcoming, but the 
circumstances got the better of us. Please, indulge us.”

Hilderich pondered this for a while and in his mind dismissed the 
idea the food would be poisoned, since if they wanted him dead, 
they wouldn't have bothered with all this. It seemed somewhat of 
a concession to the man effectively holding him captive, but the 
inescapable reality of not having eaten for more than a whole day 
struck home in the end. He nodded in acknowledgement and then 
added verbally: 

“That would be nice.”

Amonas smiled politely and gestured to Philo to get some food and 
water for the three of them, and promptly Philo vanished behind a 
rather small wooden door, his steps faintly audible as he seemed 
to traverse a staircase.

“I'm told our most hospitable friends here have prepared a 
delicacy today: lamb stew with uwe and knop leaves. Should be 
rather tasty.”

“I still think you are crazy, Amonas. Just a very curious, 
strange kind of crazy person, apparently with a culinary taste to 
match.”

“Hilderich, I confess, I have a soft spot for uwe. It's an 
acquired taste.”

Hilderich just shook his head in disbelief, a small sigh escaping 
his lips. Amonas smiled ever more broadly at that particular 
reaction, and pretty soon the strong smell of boiled uwe wafted 
through, hinting at Philo's return. Amonas seemed rather 
expectant, and could not help asking Hilderich:

“If you don't like uwe I believe a different arrangement can be 
made, something like ham or breadpie.”

“Uwe lamb stew will be fine. I can manage.”

Hilderich caught himself being actually irritated at Amonas' 
inexplicable insistence on food, which he found rather childish, 
further enhancing his opinion that the man was, indeed, deranged 
if not completely crazy.

“Oh well, I had to try and steal that extra serving.”

Philo returned and entered through the door with some difficulty 
due to the fact he was trying to balance two plates of stew on 
one hand and arm and a large bowl on the other hand. He 
precariously managed to reach the safety of a nearby table, 
putting the bowl down first, and then unloading the plate off his 
arm. Seeing that noone cared to assist him he threw around a few 
looks of mixed hurt and mild anger, before pulling a chair and 
sitting at the table, then proclaiming:

“If you gonna join the table be quick about it.”

Amonas sat excitedly in front of the bowl of stew, and Hilderich 
guessed the other plate was laid out for him and sat accordingly, 
but couldn't help noticing and asking:

“Shouldn't there be another plate for Amonas?”

Amonas had already dug in with a spoon, and seemed quite 
indifferent at anything else that went on around him and rather 
focused at enjoying his substantially rich meal.

“No point in using a plate if he's gonna eat a whole bowl. So I 
brought the bowl. Now, eat.”, Philo said with a hint of retired 
disapproval.

Hilderich nodded slowly, shrugged and dug in like the rest. He 
took a careful taste, and then munched and gulped eagerly. It 
tasted delicious indeed.




  Darkly lit night

The Disciplinarium's large audience hall was exquisitely 
decorated with fine tapestries, hung from the columns and walls 
with golden ropes and aggrandized with silk laces, freshly picked 
fragrant flowers and all manners of highly luxurious pomp and 
ceremony. 

Though night had already fallen, giant ornate silver and brass 
chandeliers hung from the high ceilings, illuminating the grand 
hall with the light of thousands candles, their beams of light 
enhanced and mirrored by the all the brass, gold and silver 
decorations strewn around almost every object in the hall, making 
them glitter and shine, magnifying their splendor tenfold.

Delicately detailed lifelike oil paintings adorned each wall, 
previous Castigators and Archministers, Procastinator Militants 
and Patriarchs, noble supporter families of the Castigator, every 
last important person that was notably recorded in history books 
was to be found here in the form of awe inspiring portraits, 
paintings and sculptures from the most talented artists of each 
generation from around the lands. 

The mass of people was still flowing slowly but steadily into the 
hall, and for a time it would seem like the small swarm of men 
was going to swell to inelegant numbers. But the Castigator's 
people who were in charge of the eventful night, those who 
orchestrated and planned who was to be given the praise of 
summons, also decided the place and time of his appearance as 
well as whether or not he should have the privilege of being able 
to dine at the same table as the Castigator, albeit always at an 
innocuous distance, a table seat that implied an immense increase 
of status and almost unrivalled political power.

As the time for the opening ceremonies for the grand festive 
night grew closer, all needed preparations were being doubly 
checked, and the gathering of guests efficiently monitored. 
Everything seemed to be in place, refreshments and drinks served 
in silver plated cups, and sweetmeats, fruit, and fine pastries 
circulating among the crowd in golden platters by busy servants, 
dressed in fine cloth wearing the green livery of the 
Castigator's office, a white eagle bearing a book and a key, a 
snake held in its beak. 

People were chatting in low voices, politely exchanging greetings 
and news when being personal acquaintances, though some of the 
more brazen guests that either lacked the knowledge of etiquette 
or were in a position to ignore it as a whole or in part, were 
already laughing heartily at jokes or anecdotes between friends 
and close acquaintances.

Everyone attending had been careful to dress as stylishly as 
possible, and according to wealth and status, there were examples 
of extravagant overdressing, with some people resembling moving 
heaps of a treasury or jewelry shop. 

Others preferred to overstate their presence with exotic cloths 
and tailorings, usually uncommon and outlandish, suggesting time 
and money spent just for this one occasion. Indeed, everyone was 
wearing the best and brightest they could afford, and maybe some 
had even took on a loan to have something special tailor-made in 
order to try and stand out in the crowd, in a bid to improve 
their fame and fortune.

The atmosphere in the hall was generally convivial though mildly 
restrained because of the premises and significance of the night. 
The festivities were taking place in order to commemorate the 
Castigator's 25th Term in Office, which coincided with the 
Pacification of Zaelin, the last of the Territories to be 
enlightened and brought under the Law of the Pantheon. 

Rumors circulated among the nobles' elite and people in the army 
and the Ministry that the Castigator would be announcing a 
decision of major importance that would stir up the relatively 
still affairs of the Territories, perhaps ushering a new era of 
glory to the Gods.

In any case, it would be an eventful night, with dancing troupes 
of wondrous abilities, unsurpassed technique and airy grace 
performing for the duration, bards of worldly renown and 
enchanting voices singing the Mythos in praise of the Castigator 
and the Pantheon, a telling re-enactment of the Pacification of 
Zaelin and the striking down of the last Heathen, Parnoth 
Larthiel, the Last Ignorant. 

The re-enactment would also offer a kind of prize to one of the 
guests who would be lucky enough for his name to be drawn amongst 
hundreds: he would have the chance to play as the Castigator in 
the final duel with Parnoth, the unclaimed role filled in by a 
lawbreaker due for execution. The honoured guest in killing the 
lawbreaker-Parnoth would be spilling heretic blood in the service 
of the Ministry, the Castigator and the Law, possibly the highest 
service to the Pantheon possible, save sacrificing one's self 
while enforcing or upholding the Law.

A huge oblong platinum chime resounded by the stroke of an 
ornamental ram swung by two Protectors, the Castigator's 
personally hand-picked guard, and judging by their imposing 
physical builts apparently chosen chiefly for their brawn. The 
sound of the chime drowned out the chatter of the milling guests, 
reverberating with a majestic effect in the audience hall, and 
signalling the official commencement of the festivities. 
Acoustics was one of many things not left to chance when the 
grandiose chamber was built.

The crowd of guests went silent and ushered by dutiful servants 
and thick-set expressionless Protectors, gathered on two opposing 
sides of the hall, leaving a wide stretch of room where the 
Castigator would soon walk on. Indeed, the voice of the Chief 
Functionary boomed like a cannon in the night:

“All kneel or be chastised, for now enters this hall his Holy 
Piousness, Olorius Menamon the IVth, Deliverer of Aconia, 
Pacifier of Zaelin, Proxy of the Gods, Procurer of the One True 
Law, and Castigator of the Outer Territories. Kneel or be 
chastised!”, the last words uttered with the gravity of a holy 
commandment, the obvious threat to be carried out with ruthless 
deliberation if needs be.

At once and in concert, the whole of the crowd, including 
servants, Protectors, Ministers, the whole of the 
Disciplanarium's staff, any and all figures of authority, 
military, civil or religious, including the Chief Functionary, 
kneeled on both legs and bowed their heads deeply and solemnly, 
as if in wholehearted prayer.

The workings of some kind of large mechanism involving gears and 
other mechanical contraptions rang through the audience hall, and 
the massive copper tinted Gates of Leor opened slowly but 
steadily, revealing the radiant form of the Castigator, 
breathtakingly dressed in the formal robes of his Office, a deep 
crimson colour dyed in the blood of heathens and heretics, solid 
golden runes written in Helica Pretoria adorning the hem, and the 
Book of Law covering its surface with silk threads so fine that 
the artisans went blind from the effort. 

And above the robes, an immaculate platinum breastplate, with no 
carvings, etchings or any decoration whatsoever. On one side, 
hung Urtis, the Mace of Judgment, the Castigator's long ago 
chosen tool of enlightenment and battle, that was said to have 
cracked as many heretic skulls as there are stones in the walls 
of the Disciplinarium. Indeed, some claim the very same skulls 
have been used in building the majestic building, as a morbid 
reminder that All is Law.

The Castigator strode with a steady pace down the central lane 
where a raised block of marble floor had appeared in sync with 
the opening of the Gates. The only audible sound was the sound of 
the Castigator's boots, a simple, utilitarian set of metal plated 
boots a soldier would wear, finely polished, but otherwise quite 
common. When he reached the dais on which the Seat of Office 
stood, he surveyed the crowd momentarily, sat down and clapped 
his bare hands once.

“Stand and confess!”, the Chief Functionary bellowed sharply, and 
the crowd complied smartly and fervently:

“All is Law!”

And the Castigator echoed back the mantra in solemn ritual, his 
voice carrying unusual depth and mesmerizing melody for a single 
man, however powerful and unique he may be.

Those that saw the Castigator and had not been granded such an 
honour before in their lives, were immediately left awestruck, 
and some of them broke down weeping, pious fervor instantly 
occupying their hearts and minds. Those that had been so blessed 
before, did not immediately stand but rather silently prayed with 
tears welling in their eyes, before being able to stand upright. 
The people that kept closer to the Castigator, his immediate 
entourage, the Ruling Council, and his guard intoned the holy 
mantra reverently and resumed their places and functions.

The Castigator then addressed the crowd which stood there 
reverently, their excitement and waiting evident in their 
glittering eyes and tense faces:

“I shall call you my children, for I am like a father unto you. I 
guide you, protect you, offer you learning and sustenance, like a 
father for his child. I ask you: Does not the Ministry keep a 
daily watch for the heretic, the heathen, the lawbreaker? Does it 
not preach the Law daily, for the continued enlightenment of all? 
The Army, does it not safeguard our lands, from enemies from 
within and from without? The Procastinators, do they not wisely 
guide your every day lives, always watching over you, less you 
stray to a horrible path with no redemption in sight. I ask you 
again, am I not like a father unto you all?”

The Castigator's voice turned from a sweet melody into a harsh 
pragmaticist's staccato tone, then back in a wavering, almost 
pleading tone, evoking sympathy and familiarity. The Chief 
Functionary struck down his distaff on the granite floor once, 
and spoke aloud while nodding condescendingly, bearded chin 
almost touching his chest:”Aye!”

The crowd followed in check, the audience hall reverberating from 
the loud voices of what now seemed to be almost a thousand 
people.

“This then I tell you as a father, for the betterment of us all, 
for the glory of the Pantheon, by the start of the new moon, in 
two weeks time, the Holy and Righteous Armies of the Outer 
Territories shall march into the Widelands, to bring 
enlightenment, cleanse the land, and finally make the Land of the 
Gods whole, as is their mandate.”

His voice rang true and clear around the chamber, his message 
inviolate and final, a decision that was to be carried out, not 
thought upon or discussed, but a matter of fact that he had set 
in motion with but a few of his words.

Most of the Ministers, Generals and other officials of the 
Disciplinarium, were apparently surprised, though they instantly 
recovered a measure of composure and if one had not been eyeing 
them constantly, they would have looked easily unperturbed by the 
announcement and its implications. 

The Procastinator Militant in his exquisite armor and fine silk 
sash was at a loss for words, and opened his mouth wide-eyed as 
if in protestation but his disciplined service and training so 
far kicked in, and barely managed to save himself from 
embarassment by nodding in the last minute and simply saying “His 
Piousness has spoken”.

The other members of the Ruling Council, the Archminister, the 
Patriarch, and the Noble Representative had their gaze locked on 
the Procastinator Militant, as if waiting for a sidestep or slip 
that would bring him crashing down in a most shameful and 
undignified way, an affront to the significance of the night. 

The Noble Representative, dressed in a simple green robe of the 
practical sort, his chest adorned with the signet brooch of House 
Remis, suppressed a grin at the nearly unforgivable blunder that 
would have definetely incurred a public lashing and a year's 
donation to the Ministry, let alone probably kill the 
Procastinator Militant's carreer.

“I have indeed! Now feast, enjoy and praise the Gods!”, the 
Castigator raised his arms in jubilance and smiled broadly, the 
atmosphere in the hall warming up in the blink of an eye, people 
starting to shuffle around, seeking food, drink, or whoever they 
had been talking with before the Castigator entered the hall. The 
announcement of setting out to pacify the last wild region, the 
Widelands, was definetely going to spur debate, however hushed, 
controlled, and unchallenging.

Lord Umsepyre Remis, the Noble Representative, was seated in the 
council in order to speak on behalf of the noble families of the 
Outer Territories. His was a purely consultatory role, expressing 
current views among the noble houses, informing the Ruling 
Council of the ebbs and flows of power, wealth, and status, as 
well as the reactions and thoughts of the nobles on affairs of 
state, religion and Law. 

Even though he had no voting rights in the Council, his input was 
often quite impossible to receive otherwise, any network of 
informers too crude in comparison. The Castigator seemed to 
consider him a quite valuable asset, judging by the special 
dispensations recently attributed to House Remis. In return, 
Umsepyre Remis was the best insightful eye and ear the Noble 
houses had concerning the inner workings of the Ministry and the 
Castigator, and solid knowledge of what went on in the 
Disciplinarium sometimes could buy things money could not.

His was a unique position where he could not be accounted for 
practically anything since he was not part of the decision making 
process, but was amply able to exchange information and insight 
as he saw fit to better suit his House's, and person's, continued 
survival.

He smiled brightly at the still uneasy Procastinator Militant, 
and made a gesture to straighten his shoulder-high long black 
hair, in an almost too bland demonstration of cool confidence.

The music that would accompany the dancing acts had started with 
a brass fanfare, and soon settling in a soft string melody, oddly 
acented here and there by flutes and bass drums, the dancers 
performing choreographed scenes from the Mythos, reliving the 
handing down of the Law from the Gods to men.

The Patriarch noted the interest on Lord Remis face who was more 
than visibly enchanted by the dancers' performance, while the 
Procastinator Militant had hurriedly called for his chief aide, 
more so in order to look busy and industrious, rather than 
because actual operational planning could be done at thiss time 
and place. The Archminister was indeed busy on the other hand, a 
trio of scribes jotting down notes and letters to be sent 
immediately, notifying key personnel of the imminent rush of 
preparations that needed to start as soon as possible.

“Lord Remis. A patron of the Arts should be more circumspect in 
his admirations, don't you think? Some may misinterpret your 
artistic admiration for mere lust. And lust is a sin, Umsepyre.”

The Patriarch's tone was precipitously balanced between the 
whimsical and playful and the vehemently dangerous and cunningly 
suggestive, his mouth and face a rigid, expressionless mask. The 
man was an almost complete mystery to Remis, he had to confess, 
his remarks and suggestions always leaving a hint of sourness.

Remis was not incisively put off, and managed to respond 
appropriately, though the effect on the Patriarch seemed to be 
minimal at best:

“The day we look upon the Mythos with lust, Your Reverence, is 
the day all sin will be revealed.”

“Ah, quoting Law. I see. Am I making you uncomfortable, Noble 
Representative? Is there a reason you would care to share?”, the 
Patriarch was now smiling genially, an almost fatherly 
expression, eyes darting around over Lord Remis face, genuine 
worry apparent on the craggy old man's face.

“No, not uncomfortable Patriarch. I would say, curious.”, said 
Remis, without looking directly at the Patriarch.

“Curious? Of the coming, final campaign?”, the Patriarch 
ventured, raising his eyebrows and hinting he knew better than 
that.

“No. Of you, Your Reverence. You are always, shall I dare say, 
fleeting.”, Ursempyre turned and look the Patriarch directly in 
the eyes, seeing cold pinpricks of blue that reminded him of icy 
death and men disappearing in a watery grave.

“Oh well then. Don't let me spoil your idea of me.”, the 
Patriarch answered, head and gaze locked in front of him, and 
walked into the crowd, his figure soon blending in to the point 
of disappearance.

Remis was left trying to ponder what went on in that man's head 
when the Castigator's voice reawakened him into reality:

“Ah my dear Ursempyre, is the Patriarch causing you trouble?”, 
the Castigator touched one of Remis' shoulders, a rare gesture of 
unmatched camaraderie. He must really be the Castigator's 
favorite to ascend. Ursempyre turned and bowed slightly, careful 
with his words as his body language.

“Trouble is what a drunkard might cause, or a hapless wife. The 
Patriarch feels like a man who causes death, Your Holiness. He 
seems always to be, so detached.”

“Ah the toils of the Church. Holy Communion with the Gods can be 
too much sometimes. However gifted and trained. You say he reeks 
of death? I say if the Gods will it, I shall follow. Won't you, 
Remis?”, the Castigator's look had been transfixed on him, 
awaiting a sure and clear answer, all doubt dispelled. Ursempyre 
indulged him accordingly.

“All is Law, Lord. Unto death and beyond. For the glory of the 
Pantheon.”, Remis recited the last phrase of the Oaths, and 
crossed his hands over his chest, further reaffirming his 
loyalties.

“You are a good man Ursempyre. Now, drink! It is a night of 
feasting, and joyous celebration. Won't you join me?”, the 
Castigator's eyes suddenly turned ablaze with fear and wrath, 
menace under his voice. Ursempyre was taken aback, only not 
visibly, and simply bowed and said:

“Of course, Your Piousness.”

The Castigator broke into laughter, as if having heard a joke 
noone else could, and started the rounds of the audience hall, 
like a perfectly good host.

Ursempyre followed close behind, not so happy of his singular 
position as he would have normally been. He took a silver cup 
filled with meade and drank it in one go. It would be a long 
night.




  The marble road

A new moon filled the night sky. It was hunting time for owls, 
wild dogs and wengals. He sat down on the cold, humid grass, legs 
crossed, walking stick leaned on his left shoulder. He rummaged 
through his ever lightening knapsack for something to eat. With 
little fuss, he managed to come up with a meagre meal: worrain 
berries and a piece of goat's cheese, still fresh and spongy.

The people in the village he went through last were the usual 
sort in these parts: animal herders mostly and a few wheat 
farmers. Simple people that prayed solemnly to the Gods, every 
day, wishing not for riches, power, lands and wives or other 
things of vanity beyond their grasp. They wished their child be 
spared of illness and harm, their herds be still whole by 
nightfall, the snow be light this year, and the rain plenty 
before harvest.

Fools then. He could feel sympathy like a man with sight feels 
for a man in the dark who has never seen golden fields in 
springtime and the piercing depthless eyes of a young maiden, but 
no more. Even blind men wish for light to shine yet before their 
lives are ended. These folk, just tread on, and never think 
otherwise. He wouldn't spare them more than a passing thought.

His road was about to take him through the Widelands, an 
unforgiving place. Few had made the passing, and even fewer were 
left sane and unscathed in body, soul and mind once they did. 
There were stories and legends about the Widelands, that were 
passed down from generation to generation, in many languages of 
many folk. 

Most of them he determined, were the superstitious tales of 
simpletons and madmen, mere fantasies for common people to spent 
the grinding, toiling days, thankful of their safe, ordinary, 
almost pitiful lives. Some were invariably twisted second and 
third-hand tales of those who ventured into the accursed place 
and came back, surely not wholesome and well.

Fact and fiction were interwoven tightly in such accounts, but 
some probable, shared truths could be distilled from the broth of 
rumblings, mutterings, and assorted hearsay that permeated the 
inns and taverns all across the Territories. There were even a 
few written accounts by people who seemed to have genuinely made 
the journey, and live to tell the tale and become rich and famous 
in the process, but most of them seemed to be very talented liars 
and writers, the distinction in their works of little 
significance. 

Only the Tale of Umberth could be counted as less than nefarious, 
since he set out with a hundredscore of men, of whom barely three 
survived: Umberth, his esquire Esphalon and a woman, then only a 
child, who Umberth claimes was found wandering alone, mute and 
dark-skinned, almost pitch-like.

Umberth spent the rest of his days and sizable fortune trying to 
organize further trips into the Widelands, his few unsuccessful 
efforts presenting the girl as living proof of his sayings of 
underground cities, height-defying towers and huge arching 
constructs, but the girl could not even speak her name. Her skin 
color was a singular phenomenon that more often than not provoked 
the wrath of the Ministers and the aversion of crowds, speaking 
of heresy against the Gods and the bastard offspring of heathens 
and beasts of old that the earth unveiled from time to time to 
test the faithful and attract the blasphemer.

Not long after the Ministry declared her as well as Umberth 
heretics, an unrelenting manhunt together with the watchful, ever 
pious and dutiful believers of the Pantheon bore fruit and 
Umberth and the girl were beheaded and their bodies burned to 
ashes in Pyr, in the winter of the third pacificum, 153rd annum, 
51 days before the Solstice. 

Esphalon, his esquire, was sentenced to silence unto death and 
exiled, never to utter a word in his life again, his tongue cut 
out. He then wandered the northern lands, surviving on little 
more than worms and lichen, possibly wishing death for himself. 
In those lands, he came upon a small tribe of nomads, wild men 
that knew not how to herd sheep and work metal or clay, with 
wooden spears and no command of fire.

From what Esphalon later describes, when he was trapped and 
caught like animal prey, probably destined for a savage death, 
perhaps a sacrifice or plain and simple cannibalism, the savages 
noticed while they searched his clothing a small plaque of metal, 
hand-sized, with no discerning characteristics other than a 
circular notch in its center, a memento from the Widelands. When 
they noticed that, Esphalon was greeted among them as an equal, a 
member of the tribe lost and found.

He soon realised the importance of that plaque, and was further 
mystified. The savages used it to produce light and heat, by 
placing an ordinary stone, even a pebble, inside the notch. 
Pebbles and stones were the most widely used since they could be 
found in abundance in the northern rocky steppes were these 
people seemed to roam unhindered. Sometimes they used animal 
bones or pieces of wood, mostly whatever was handy at the time.

Invariably, the said item slowly seemed to shrink and then vanish 
into thin air in a matter of moments, and then pleasant sunlight 
and radiant heat would emanate from the plaque for hours to come.

All this and much more is written in Esphalon's memoirs, a 
corrugation of the things he saw and experienced in the wildlands 
coupled with what little time he spent with the savages. The 
plaque remained with the savage men who would not part with it in 
any way, and Esphalon reached an isolated fishing harbor facing 
the Pangalor Sea, half-dead from starvation, exhaustion, and lost 
a leg and three fingers from frostbite.

It was there were he wrote the Pangalor Scrolls, the single 
half-consistent work that contains enough about the Widelands to 
make it useful in crossing it, and perhaps uncovering more about 
this mysterious land and living long enough for others to know as 
well.

His reverie was broken by the cries of a nighthawk swooping in to 
catch his prey, somewhere out in the star-lit fields of short 
grass and poppies swinging gently in the night breeze. He 
marvelled at the arrogant precision and expert flying of the 
nighthawk, which made no effort to catch his prey unguarded, but 
instead seemed to announce indifferently it was about to kill and 
then feast on a helpless, doomed, animal soul.

He smiled thinly and then got up, fastened his knapsack, picked 
up his walking stick and set off down the marble road. He looked 
overhead and saw the nighthawk soaring triumphantly, a small 
snake writhing in its death throes, captured in its beak. The 
nighthawk cried into the night once more, and then disappeared 
over the distance, its faint silhouette mingled with the starry 
blue and black sky.

The marble road was glistening as always, unmarred by war or 
nature's wrath. He started humming an old tune his grandfather 
used to sing, and soon he was lost behind the first hill.




  Under a livid sky

When they had eaten, after Amonas conferred with Philo, the burly 
man said he would be back soon. Hilderich had relaxed somewhat, 
but he could not for the life of him fathom the two men. It might 
be just as well. When he had seen whatever it was they wanted to 
show him, perhaps they would stick true to their word and release 
him, let go and consider him a friend. 

He wasn't sure how exactly a person who planned overthrowing 
plots of heresy could afford to just tell people then let them go 
and trust their good souls to tell not, but he had a feeling it 
involved some kind of pain, extortion, or good old fashioned 
fall-assisted life removal.

It just struck him odd. He felt he could trust this man, but his 
mind reeled at the prospect. I must be going slightly mad, he 
thought to himself. He was starting to think of ways he could 
snatch that keystone and make a run for it, but the more he 
thought about it the more stupid he felt. They had already outran 
him and outsmarted him once. Certainly he was no match for either 
one of them in single even unarmed combat. He now belatedly 
wished he had taken some time to practice his body rather than 
spent most of it knee deep in curatoria.

What mattered was that for now, he decided his best chances lay 
in playing along, and seeing what it was that they promised would 
change his mind and heart forever.

The faint dusk had just given way to a pure, clean night. As he 
lay there in his cot, he noticed Amonas had lit a large candle, 
and was reading what seemed to be letters. He noticed the man had 
been rather drawn into his reading material and decided against 
indiscretion on his part. Amonas through the corner of his eye 
though was aware of Hilderich mild scrutiny and without lifting 
his head from his reading, he said to him in an inviting, 
conversational tone:

“From my wife. She's with child.”

“I didn't mean to intrude, I just noticed you were very much 
occupied.”, said Hilderich almost apologetically.

“Still thinking of how and when to escape Hilderich? You are more 
lively than you already know, friend. There will be no need.”, 
Amonas looked him levelly, his gruffy voice adding an air of 
authenticity Hilderich hadn't noticed so far. Perhaps he was 
being afflicted with a disease of the mind, something in the 
food. 

But he felt alright otherwise, he did not believe he was poisoned 
or otherwise tampered with. He just could not believe he was 
having a normal conversation with a person who was either 
mentally deranged or emphatically dangerous, a heretic 
nonetheless!

Hilderich's thoughts were interrupted by Philo who entered the 
small room, hood still on his head. He nodded to Amonas, who in 
turn said to Hilderich:

“Come. You shall see for yourself soon.”

Hilderich stood up and Amonas offered him a hooded cloak, 
somewhat more fine and more elegant than most. As soon as he wore 
it, Amonas was instructing Philo to lead them on and out into the 
city. Amonas would be trailing, and Hilderich would be in the 
middle, evidently a small precaution on their part should he feel 
a sudden urge to run like hell.

Philo lead them through somewhat shady alleys, light from far 
away lamps barely reaching them. They angled left and right, as 
if evading unseen stalkers. Perhaps there were some indeed. He 
would not be able to see them or smell them until too late in any 
case. So he trudged along. His knowledge of the city streets was 
perfunctory at best, but even he could discern that they were 
walking towards the Disciplinarium's hill. Even from a distance, 
the sounds of music and festivities could be heard, and a light 
show of fireworks seemed to be underway as well.

Hilderich mused inspite himself:

“Are we invited then?”

Amonas smiled wryly and urged him forward, while Philo turned his 
head around and stabbed Hilderich with his eyes. His attempt at 
humor went unanswered.

The more they approached the Disciplinarium, the more care they 
took in their approach, triple checking alleyways, hunching over 
shadows, their feet as light as cats', not a sound other than 
shallow breathing. 

When they reached the base of the Disciplinarium's hill, Philo 
signalled them to stop dead in their shoes. He let a guard patrol 
vanish behind the curve of the hill's base before urging them to 
rush for a certain part of the slope, where the shadow of the 
aqueduct overhead would conceal them.

They did so with a dancer's grace and reached the grassy part of 
slope Philo had indicated. He took out a small knife from his 
belt, and Hilderich watched in still surprise as he dug out a 
small piece of tuft. A metal dial was to be found underneath, 
which then Amonas proceeded to twist left and right accordingly 
to some whim or unknown turn.

Without a sound a small tubular opening appeared above the dial, 
large enough for a man to fit inside but only in a prone 
position. It led into a shiny metal pipe or tube of some sort 
with a downward inclination whose other end was obscured in 
darkness, and judging from the light stream of air wafting 
through, it was a long pipe indeed.

Philo nodded to Amonas and said,”I'll go on ahead.”

Amonas patted him on his left shoulder and grinned:

“Are you sure you'll fit?”

Philo was already sliding inside the mysterious and intriguing 
metalwork, and muttered in a low voice what must have been a 
friendly obscenity, if such a notion exists. Amonas then ushered 
Hilderich inside, imparting a word of advice:

“Arms glued on your body. Count to thirty and then take a deep 
breath and hold it. You're not afraid of water are you?”, Amonas' 
low gruffy voice barely revealing of hint of worry.

“Water?Why?Count to thirty? Fast or slow?”

“Go on then!”, Amonas had to shove Hildrich inside, his protests 
becoming dangerously loud.

“You really plan to kill me!”

Hilderich's terror was evident in the shrill quality of his 
voice. It had all happened too quickly to try and hold back, so 
when Amonas pushed him down the tubing, he tried to follow his 
advice, held his arms stiff to his body and started counting to 
thirty.

The tubing angled downwards pretty soon and Hilderich felt he was 
riding a children's slide, with the slight difference that the 
end of the slide was nowhere in sight, and mad, possibly 
delusional, quite certainly heretic thugs were shoving you down 
into one.

Hilderich heard a splash echo dimly in the metal tubing, and was 
suddenly reminded of Amonas instruction. He wasn't sure if he had 
counted past thirty or not, his terror and anxiety mixed with his 
confounded thoughts a recipe against keeping calm and 
cool-headed. He filled his lungs with air as long as there was 
time anyway, and just when he started to think he had grievously 
mistimed his breath, he splashed into water.

The feeling was one of quite shock, the cold water encircling his 
whole body, seeping through his clothes, assaulting his ears and 
nostrils, as if trying to enter his body without his will. His 
eyes had closed instinctively, then he opened them slowly, 
searching for the open surface, his hands wobbling uncertainly, 
before a small primal fear of running out of air urged him to 
swim upwards, towards what seemed to be a faint source of light.

Within moments his head was clear of the water. He exhaled 
momentarily, then breathed in gasps until he could find his 
normal breathing once more. An outstretched hand seemed to be 
offering to help him out of the water. As soon as he realised it 
belonged to Philo, he heard another splash of water roughly 
behind him, and turned his head to look even as Philo pulled him 
to somewhat dry land.

It was Amonas, who seemingly more accustomed to the area, needed 
no help and within seconds was among them, tiny rivulets of water 
still running down his leather vest, thick drops of water falling 
from his forehead.

“Let us move. Hilderich, I would beg your silence. We are 
relatively safe as long as we are silent.”, Amonas said in hushed 
tones while holding Hilderich by the arm, in a friendly gesture.

“As if I've been screaming my lungs out. I'll keep my mouth shut. 
Are we near whatever place you think will change my mind? Are we 
below the Disciplinarium, by any chance?”, said Hilderich, while 
vainly trying to squeeze off some of the water. 

“We are. But we still have some way to go.Come now, you will dry 
yourself later.”

They had fallen inside a natural cistern in a small rocky cave. 
Strangely enough, light seemed to seep through some cracks in the 
walls. With a closer inspection, Hilderich saw the cracks were 
more akin to lichen, faintly wet to the touch, but rough like 
sand as well. A sort of crystal formation seemed to lie 
underneath such spots. Philo nudged him onward, cutting his 
examination of the peculiarity short. It reminded him of some 
lesser kind of curatoria, that his master was not particularly 
interested in, and thus were only lightly studied.

But the light they gave off was indeed enough, even though only 
barely, to walk the gently curving twists and turns of what 
seemed to be an extensive network of caves, an almost ant-like 
structure, deep underneath the Disciplinarium's hill. 

He noticed the steady, purposeful stride of Amonas before him, 
and the dim blue and violet light that imparted a grim hue on 
everything around and including them. A feeling of eerie wariness 
started to seep in Hilderich. At length he tapped at Amonas 
shoulder, who paused, turned and looked directly at Hilderich, an 
expectant look on his face but not a sound coming out of his 
lips. Hilderich asked in a low voice:

“Are we lost?”

Amonas did not answer, but rather resumed his walk, taking them 
through caverns small and large and paths that could not be 
retraced unless with a map. The further down they went, the 
warmer it felt, and soon walking in the caves felt like a warm 
summer trip in the country. Hilderich had by now lost track of 
their approximate depth, direction, or distance of travel. 

Perhaps they were not lost, but he essentially was and thought he 
would be unable find his own way back if the opportunity 
presented itself. What good would it do though, since the tube 
was meant to go down, and not up? Just as he let out a sigh of 
hopelessness, he could discern light pouring out from the next 
corner, and feel their slight descend leveling out. By now his 
clothes felt almost dry, a slight feeling of dampness remaining 
in his feet and arms. 

The light grew more intense, a clear intense light like sunlight. 
But sunlight, so deep under the earth? Not to mention, it was 
still night outside. When they were only a few paces away from 
the corner that shone with light, Amonas threw up one arm, palm 
open, indicating a halt. He leaned over the corner of the rocky 
cave, and peered carefully for almosta minute, making sure they 
were safe. Hilderich was not in a position to know what he was 
keeping them safe from, or whether or not the possible threat was 
imaginary or real. 

Amonas nodded that everything seemed as it should be, and walked 
out into the light. He blinked his eyes flinching as they 
adjusted to the brightness, and then gestured with his hand to 
Hilderich:

“Come. We are here.”

Hilderich stepped forward as well, the bright light forcing him 
to instinctively cover his eyes with his right arm, the small 
peep of its shadow the only shelter against such sudden 
illumination. A fragrant waft of air rushed around them, as Philo 
joined them as well, and all three of them were slowly walking 
towards the light. As Hilderich's eyes finally adjusted to the 
light, he could see the rocky cave all around them give way to a 
smooth white surface, much like porcelain at first glance.

These strange walls seemed to extrude themselves from the strata 
of cave rocks, as if totally alien and utterly old in origin. 
Then Hilderich's eyes wandered a bit more and then his gaze 
rested on the center of a huge chamber apparently made from the 
same white-ivory material. The chamber was cylindrical in shape, 
and from top to bottom a wide pillar which incredulously seemed 
to be made of pure light stood, a sight that defied Hilderich's 
senses and logic.

“What is this place?”, Hilderich asked Amonas, awestruck, gaze 
still locked on the pillar of light.

“This is the first pillar of truth, Hilderich.”, Amonas said 
while edging closer to the pillar, Hilderich a couple of steps 
behind him, his face brightly illuminated, but his eyes 
unflinching. Philo stood at the rocky entrance to the chamber, 
with his back indifferently turned to the wondrous sight in front 
of their eyes.

“The truth? What is this, Amonas? Is it Ancient?”, Hilderich's 
tone had a far-away quality, as if he was mesmerized, his mind 
off to some deep trench of thought.

“It is my friend. A working piece of technology of the Ancients, 
buried deep under the Disciplinarium. What does that tell you, 
friend?”, Amonas was looking intently at Hilderich's calm and 
entranced face, his every word glistening with expectation.

“What it should. This must be preserved. Documented. Studied. A 
Curatorium be built around it, scholars from around the lands 
should visit and..”

Amonas grabbed Hilderich violently from both arms and attracted 
his total attention, his voice free of constraints:

“Studies! Scholars! Can't you really see what this means?Think of 
your Mythos!Think of your precious Law!”

Hilderich was visibly shaken as if coming around from a waking 
dream, eyes rolling around trying to come to grips with his 
surroundings and the man with the gruff voice in front of him, 
shouting at him and looking ready to snap him in two if he said 
the wrong thing.

He asked him to think of the Mythos, and the Law. The Law was the 
established religious canon that had replaced traditional secular 
law thousands of years earlier. The Mythos was the recorded 
history of the Gods handing down the Law unto the forsaken race 
of man, to save it from destruction and withering, to help men 
reach their Gods at the Time of Conjugation. 

The Law instructs man that those he knew as Ancients were the 
manifestation of evil. That any tool or work of art or science 
whose workings cannot be seen with the naked eye or touched by 
naked hand are containers of evil. That there is only this land, 
and none other. That the lights in the sky were put there by the 
Gods, to make nights more bearable. That death is irrevocable and 
permanent, and those who do not uphold the Law, will be shunt 
forever, their souls kept away from the Gods. 

That any man, woman or child upholding belief in the Ancients or 
their works is a heretic, a vessel of corruption. That the 
Ministers, uphold and teach the Law to the people. That the 
people, in turn, devote themselves and their lives to abide the 
Law. That the Patriarch declares additional Law as he sees fit, 
never in contradiction to the basic tenements, and he alone 
chooses his successor. That a Castigator rules, a man of wisdom 
and strength to lead the people, protect them, enlighten the 
heathens, punish the lawbreakers and the heretics, and offer 
praise and glory to the Gods.

That is what the Mythos and the Law say. Hilderich, though he did 
not consider himself the religious type, had always been careful 
not to attract the ire of the Ministers. He had memorised the 
Mythos and the Law, as part of his training and education, as is 
the case with most who are fortunate enough to be allowed to read 
and write, since he was apprentice to a Curator, a guild of men 
with special dispensation to hold and maintain approved artifacts 
from times past, some of which have nefarious origins, keeping 
strict indices of what is stored where. 

Only ministers and certain officials of the Disciplinarium or the 
Army, and then again only after special permission is granted for 
expressed purposes, can be allowed to even view a Curatorium from 
the inside. To think that he was so honored. And to think that 
now, he is looking at what seems to be a working example of 
heretical, evil, technology.

“They know about this? The Disciplinarium?”, Hilderich asked 
feebly.

“Of course they know Hilderich! They have always known! Do you 
think this is the only place they have access to with such an 
artifact?”

“But, what does it do? And what proof do you have they know about 
things such as these? Much less use one?”, Hilderich was 
argumentative, but slightly unsure of his words, his voice 
wavering as if he was shaking from the cold.

“Always the hard way, eh Hilderich?”, said Amonas and shook his 
head in silent disappointment, nodding to Philo who winked back 
an acknowledgement.

Hilderich was considering the magnificent simplicity and awesome 
sight of the pillar of light in front of him, a bright pillar of 
sunlight not as blinding as the suns, with a hazy rainbow of all 
colours on its edges, a pulsating haze of tiny pin pricks rushing 
through some sort of invisible shell. He was interrupted somewhat 
violently by Amonas who neatly but decisively pushed him towards 
the pillar of light.

“What are you doing?Is this safe?”, Hilderich seemed to protest 
in principle only, his mouth voicing concern, but his feet 
offering little resistance.

“Don't really know, it's only my second time.”

At that answer Hilderich's face took on an expression of 
exacerbated disbelief, but only for a moment, because an instant 
later, both his and Amonas' figures were vanishingly thin and 
elongated ghostly forms, and then all that was left of them was a 
smooth scent of uwe stew.

Philo turned and looked at the pillar of light, gave a derisive 
rough kind of snort, and continued his vigil, unperturbed.





The first thing that Hilderich felt was a sinking sensation, like 
the inevitable pull and grasp of a whirlpool, the dreaded voids 
of the sea that claim ships and men alike. Then he saw an 
explosion of light, swirling walls of light running up to meet 
him face on, and then nothing for what must have been less than a 
heartbeat. 

Then light filled his senses totally, even his smell. He could 
have sworn, he could smell light. Then his eyes somewhat adjusted 
to the radiant sea of white enfolding him, and he could make out 
the outline of his hands. The first thing he heard was the 
strange chirrups of birds probably. The second was a gravely 
voice with serious undertones, Amonas' voice.

“Take a step forward Hilderich. Don't be afraid now.”

He did and was left standing there. His eyes insisted that he was 
outside, on what seemed like a clear summer sky. How he could 
have in an instant walked past an underground cave as well as the 
grasp of night, he was unable to answer, not without gibberish 
coming out of his mouth. After a few more moments had passed, 
while playing back what had just happened, Hilderich was finally 
able to ask:

“Where are we?”

Amonas smiled as he was pointing at the single yellow sun in the 
sky, and simply said:

“I'd love to find out.”

Fulcrum

“A man with no purpose in life is like a river without a sea to 
lose itself in. Such is the meaning of purpose, hard and 
defining, to lose oneself completely. Immerse one's essence in a 
journey with no visible end in the distance. Anything less is 
bound to bring about ennui, the crushing realisation of our 
discrete physical form and its inadequacies. Anything less than 
steering oneself through life like the only real obstacle is 
death itself, leads to early death of the mind and the soul. I 
ask you, would you live life or stand by idly waiting for death? 
I chose to vanquish death altogether.”

-Thessurdijad Molo, A journey through my life

  A long and winding path

The mountain grew ever more unkind. Its many bare faces looked 
down upon a lonely figure, slowly but surely making its way 
through rock, gravel, low grass and loose dirt. His hood was 
down, revealing a stern but humble face. Care lines dotted his 
forehead, and one could easily spot he was not a man prone to 
laughing easily. His face was adorned by a beard grown out of 
necessity, not choice, and his thin long hair was unkempt, a few 
wild strand jutting in strange directions.

The wind and the rain were thankfully absent on this day, 
awarding him the leisure of trudging along the mountainous path 
with only his sore feet and stiff legs to distract him from his 
effort. Indeed, he paused once again to rest for a moment, let 
his blood flow freely in his legs and feet, and take a moment to 
pray to God for his good fortune.

He sat down on the naked rock, his buttocks well used by now to 
such discomforts. He touched his forehead with one had and 
brought out a small piece of knotted string with the other. His 
lips then moved in a silent orison, asking for more of the same 
good fortune, and perhaps a bush or nut-bearing tree from which 
to gather some much needed food.

He had not seen or heard signs of goats or other 
mountain-dwelling animals for days now. There was still some 
grass on these slopes, so there should have been herds or 
families of animals feeding. Perhaps there were many more richer 
plains and slopes far below, or in plateaus his path had not 
taken him through. 

Perhaps it was pure chance that he had not seen a living soul, 
neither a bird or lizard and certainly not a goat. Perhaps it was 
his God, testing him for purity of heart and strength of purpose, 
to steel him further in order to come through the always perilous 
journey of Pilgrimage.

He was living on certain kinds of insects that were still to be 
found if someone knew how and where to look, and a few roots he 
had been able to identify as edible. The further deep inside the 
mountain range he trod, the stranger and more different the life 
he met became. At first the trees started to become bulkier, more 
water rich, taller and greener. Then the animals, he noticed, 
were more stout, fatter, their meat sweet and richer in flavor, 
its color a vivid red, not like the dark, stringy meat of the 
animals he was used to.

It was a sign, he decided, that with every step closer to God's 
Lands, the land was graced by his favor, and the animals were fat 
and felt no hunger, the trees and plants grew tall and proud, the 
birds soared high and their voices were sweet as honey running 
down a child's mouth. It was His work, all that was abundant, and 
all that was good.

This part of the mountains seemed to have fallen from His grace, 
whether as another trial, or for reasons only He could entertain. 
No matter, since his wisdom permeates the earth and the sky, he 
thought he could only accept and never wonder, for that way lay 
madness, and the fall from grace into pits of despair and 
malevolence.

He felt he was attuned, resonating with the earth below, the sky 
above and the stone all around him. He reached into his small 
sack, and with no effort produced a small circular pendant, a 
thin slice of white marble or porcelain cast around a black mat 
surface, smoothe and cold to the touch. 

He held it firmly with both hands for a while, looking intently 
at its black surface and then a thin sliver of green started to 
pulsate on the black surface, a green line starting to form from 
one edge of the small black circlet, and ending on another, to 
form a straight path, like the invisible brush of a painter kept 
stroking the same line, always in the same direction.

He looked at the thin, green line of light, and then looked at 
the faint mountain path that zig-zag through the ever rockier 
slopes. His path was true, that much he knew. His pointing stone 
had not failed him before, and neither would it fail him now, not 
on his Pilgrimage, not while his faith was strong, and his prayer 
warm of heart and soul. That he knew, and little else would come 
to matter.

He took a moment and gazed at the lands resting below him. The 
great northern plains could be seen far away, a faint grey haze 
slightly discernible under a thin sheet of fog. And then rolling 
hills of auburn slowly lifting off the ground as if the very hand 
of God had touched and pinched the lands, his handprint faintly 
echoed in the timid, graceful slopes.

Between the foot of the mountains and the hills, lay a deep 
gorge, a wild river running through it, twisting and turning as 
far as the eye could see further to the east, its flow coming 
from somewhere deep inside the mountains, further up north, 
further than the lands where his people roam, where the snow 
never melts and the suns always hide behind the clouds, where 
neither man nor beast can endure for long.

A fleeting sensation of wonder filled him, for the works of God 
were magnificent to behold, and his Pilgrimage a unique journey 
of faith, beauty, wonder and duty. The honour he was blessed with 
was indeed so great he could have never thought it possible, much 
less aspire to it. Nonetheless, he was on a Pilgrimage to the 
Land of God. He was the Pilgrim, the one honoured to pay homage 
to the Land of God and the final resting place of their 
forefathers. 

To him lay the duty of bringing back a Holy Forge, to pluck one 
out of the very famed Garden of Wonders! His eyes were suddenly 
lit at the very thought, even as his body still dully ached from 
the many hardships his peregrination had knowingly brought upon 
him and would bring him still. But he ignored all that which 
occluded his mind and he imagined himself, standing amidst the 
Garden of Wonders and quenching his thirst from the Unending 
Spring.

It would all be more than worthy of the pain, the cold and the 
rain. Just to lay his eyes on the Veiled Gates, he would 
willingly give his life. But he cannot, and will not, until his 
Pilgrimage is complete, and his people have their Holy Forge 
renewed. Oh, the joyous wonders he is yet to behold, not just the 
earth and the rivers and the mountains all wrought in 
unquestioned wisdom, but the craft of God Himself, right in front 
of his eyes, at the touch of his hand, from silver, and stone, 
and sand that never crumbles, or faints, and never shall.

His senses brought him back to the cold reality. He still had 
some good light left, and he should not waste it. Every day 
without a Holy Forge was a harsh day for his people. His journey 
was still many days and nights away from an end. Tarrying here in 
the middle of the mountains, daydreaming like a young selfish 
brat was not at all what any would expect of him, the one so 
honoured. His shoulders suddenly felt a bit heavier with so much 
resting on them: the future of his people, the life of the land, 
the children yet unborn.

A gust of the mountains cold and wholesome air seemed to have 
infected him with renewed vigour. In seconds, he was already 
steadily climbing up the steep, winding path that would take him 
between the two dominant mountain peaks, and afterwards probably 
on a shallow descend to the Land of God.

Those who had gone before him had followed the same path, and had 
passed on word of their travel and their journey. What mountains 
and ridges to pass, which rivers and springs to drink from, what 
strange growths and roots to eat, where to feel safe and sleep 
unhindered, as well as where to keep one eye open and your knife 
in hand. More than a few had perished and left traces of their 
demise for the next ones to follow, and more than a few times the 
people had almost been extinguished, their last footprint upon 
the earth carried away by the winds that know no sympathy or heed 
no pledge and care not for the lives of simple men.

But God provides, and always will. As long as we have faith, as 
long as we live our lives like we were meant to, taught to from 
father to child, as long as we go on the Pilgrimage when time and 
God mandate.

These thoughts occupied his head as he toiled onwards, even 
though under his thick pelted boots his calloused feet could feel 
every last jut of rock and bit of gravel. This was him now, this 
described him wholly. He was Pilgrim, meant to walk the earth 
until he reached the Holy Place, and then whether or not he would 
go back to his people and his previous life, that meant nothing. 
When he performed the Rites, the Holy Forge would be with his 
people. And then he could walk back, and live the rest of his 
days having witnessed the glory of God, teach those that would 
come after him, and if it fate would have it so, help the next 
Pilgrim prepare for his own difficult journey.

Perhaps, he thought, I am getting too far ahead in my thinking. 
My journey is still far from over, and yet here I am, feet dead 
as wood, legs heavy like rock, once again on the climb, all I've 
loved and known left behind perhaps forever, and I am let myself 
be fooled by visions of a future yet to unravel, me at its 
centre.

Selfishness. Ego. A sign of malignancy, a precursor to evil 
thoughts and desires, accursed manifestations of Them. May God 
watch over his people and lend him strength and clarity of mind 
and purpose. To think such thoughts, when God was already 
pointing to the true path, when everything so far had proceeded 
along according to his divine plan, when the auguries had said it 
was a good time for a Pilgrimage. That he was a good man, that he 
would be a true Pilgrim, one tat God would accept.

He felt he had to cleanse himself with birch and water, pay 
obeysance to his God with an offer of personal sacrifice. But he 
was already on his Pilgrimage, what could he do now that would 
not interfere with his holy purpose? He had no inkling yet, but 
he felt blood rushing through his veins, feeling guilty, 
shameful, almost soiled.

He pushed harder, the slope turning into an almost sheer wall of 
rock. The small, narrow path had degenerated into a granite 
crevace with pockmarks and surfaces of chipped rock that one had 
to climb with hands as well as feet.

In his mind, it mattered little, because he felt like he would 
grow wings if he had to, if the earth was without warning removed 
from his feet. He felt like he would grow gills and scales, and 
swim the oceans of the world if the skies suddenly opened and 
poured all the water of the world and the earth was covered in 
it.

He steadily put one hand after the next, hoisting his lithe and 
supple careworn body slowly but surely, every step of the way a 
small death for Them and their venomous influence that seeps into 
the hearts and minds of the weak-minded and unfaithful, spreading 
over the poeple of the earth like a rotting disease.

Perspiration glistened on his forehead, the small of his back was 
damp as well, everu muscle and joint burning from effort and 
protesting at every leap and move. But he kept going, his mind 
focused, his soul shielded and armed, a searing force of pure 
light stabbing through a heart of darkness, a pestilence of lies, 
deceit and wrong.

He was fighting Them, even as he climbed, and sweat, and toiled. 
His whole Pilgrimage was a Holy War, he now knew, and this very 
climb a fight. Like the War between God and Them, at a time 
before man. The same war, a million fights, a million more, until 
God prevails, until the faithful have had their share of blood, 
toil, and fighting. Until then, he would climb for his people, 
His Faithful. Until then, he would endure the forces arrayed 
against him, be they nature, men, or Them, in one disguise or 
many.

He would endure and he would prevail. Not to become a revered one 
among his folk, not to serve some delusional idea of a grandiose 
self in a small world and an even smaller land, an even fewer 
people. It was true, their numbers were dwindling, their women 
bore less children, and their liver were becoming shorter. He 
would endure the hardships of his path and the machinations of 
the enemies of God, for the good of his people and the will of 
his God.

He reached out with one hand blindly, his face wearing an 
expression of determination, a resolute, stout mask under which 
nerves flickered furiously with jabbing explosions of pain and 
anguish, though for no one else to know apart himself and God.

He grasped for a handhold in the rock, a fissure, a jutting piece 
of granite or lime, but all he could grasp was thin, cold rushing 
air. With another leap, his face was caught in the stream of air, 
his hood wildly fluttering about his neck, sweaty locks of hair 
caressing his face. He had reached the neck between the two 
peaks, and he could now see a wide stretch of plain-like ground 
extending before him, grim patches of grass, rocks and dusty 
gravel for days worth of travel ahead of him.

He could feel the touch of God as he took the final step onto the 
plateau, his soul drifted away by a divine wind, his aching body 
forgetful of his aches and trappings. He felt light as a feather, 
in body and soul. He remembered then the words of his Guide, his 
people's master of lore and faith, their holy man:”And once you 
step onto the wide, grey mesa, a gust of wind will greet you and 
lift your soul. It will be God whispering in your ear, it will be 
a sign from God, that your path is true.”

Indeed then his path was true, one of many perils left behind. He 
let out a laugh, inspite of him, a laugh he would look down on 
with contempt as blasphemous, but it was a laugh that welled from 
the soul, a liberating act, a cry of thanks to his God, his 
protector, his ever watchful Father. He started walking with a 
steady slow pace once more, with what little light of day 
remained guiding him to a cluster of rocks where he might find 
shelter for the coming night. Once he lay down, he would pray to 
God and offer him his gratitude for saving him from disgrace and 
keeping him on his true path.

And then he would sleep and dream of goat's cheese, berries, 
honey and meade..




  Gossamer Twilight

A faint aroma of cinnamon and rosebuds permeated the bedroom, a 
thin, comely sweetness lingering in the air, inviting nothing but 
warm memories and cherished moments to those it happened to 
touch. The first light of dawn had just broke, the sounds of 
early morning in Pyr resounding as ever. 

The Ministry Tower rang once, then twice, for the people to wake 
up timely, and offer their daily prayer to the Gods. The 
scurrying feet of water sellers and milk men could be heard from 
the balconies, running through town, their carts filled 
dangerously with bottles and oversized clay or wooden containers, 
selling their wares to those in the city who could afford to. 

Celia woke up as the beam of sunlight characteristically bounced 
off the gleaming, copper-skinned Ministry tower, as was usually 
the case. Her long golden brown hair, tangled as it was from last 
night's fretful sleep, resembled a flaming bush when the 
copper-tinted light cast off the ministry's tower shone upon her. 
Her visage was one of a fiery, avenging god-maiden of fury and 
destruction, an avalanche of wrath rushing down upon the 
wrongdoers and evil-makers that dared incurr her retribution.

But that was only a fleeting impression, for when she touched her 
grown belly and felt her unborn child still soundly and safely 
asleep, her smile was like heavenly orchards grew and bore ripe 
honey-sweet fruit in the blink of an eye, all the goodness of 
creation coming together in a still moment of time, a mother's 
smile, a power beyond reckoning and imagination, all that in the 
creases of a beautiful face and two comely lips. And she who had 
seemed as a terrible force had been wondrously transfigured, into 
a mother bathed in sunlight, radiating warmth and love, any hint 
of terrible awe a mere phantom now in the eye of the beholder.

After a few moments of silent contemplation, as if communicating 
with the foetus growing inside her, and some moments of simple 
indulgence in smelling the morning fragrances and hearing the 
first sounds of day, Celia threw her sheets away playfully and 
got out of bed to follow her usual routine: she took her morning 
bath, and then offered her own prayer to the Gods, thanking them 
for sending a man like Amonas to her, thanking them for 
conceiving her child, carrying it this far, and praying for her 
husband's safe return, and her child's first cry into this world.

She was then startingly taken by the fragrant smell that had 
gently occupied her senses ever since she opened her eyes, and 
felt almost strange for not immediately taking notice of such a 
beautiful scent. With a familiar way, she tried to trace the 
source of the fragrant smell that seemed to seep through the 
walls and pour from balconies and windows. She peered over her 
stone balcony, more and more people starting to wade through the 
streets, the day starting off in its usual rhythm. 

The bakery on the corner of their street had only begun to 
unravel steaming loafs of bread from its oven, no sign of sweets 
and caramels and other sugar treats. It was only to be expected, 
on a Watchday. Who would dare cross arms with the Law? Much less 
for a little taste of sugar. And Cerpiem, the stall vendor, who 
sold almost anything from thin sheets of writing paper for the 
rich and affluent, to small pieces of gum for the children. He 
had nothing of the sorts laid out.

Who was the mischievous rascal then? And even more so, ignoring 
the proscriptions of the Ministers? Her curiosity and her happy, 
playful mood took over. She would set off to find this little 
rebellious soul, and why not, share some of the forbidden fruit 
if he would share it. 

She put on her simple flowing green dress, the silver hairband 
Amonas had fashioned for her once she had known she was carrying 
his child, and went down her stairs and onto the busy street.

She knew Amonas would be somewhere here in the city of Pyr, but 
it was much safer for both of them if she knew not exactly where 
he was and when he would be coming back. It was for the best, 
that was what he had told her, and she felt suddenly saddened by 
his absence, staying away from each other while he could be so 
close was stressful and felt plain wrong. Like a child instructed 
not to play for fear of falling down and hurting.

She was suddenly brought back to her immediate reality in a 
breathtakingly surprising way: a hefty slice of cinnamon breadpie 
was standing right in fron of her, and old lady Rovenia was 
holding the outlandishly little plate, a knowing smile written 
across her care-worn face, bright green eyes that had seen more 
than a lifetime's worth of sadness and happiness twinkling with a 
child's mischievous glee.

“You! Shame on you lady Rovenia! On a Watchday too?”, said Celia 
as she took the offered plate with one hand and ushered lady 
Rovenia through the footstep of her house's door, which she had 
barely walked out from herself only moments earlier. Lady Rovenia 
said nothing, but kept on smiling, and Celia thought she could 
perhaps hear a little snort or giggle as the old lady came inside 
the house, with a breadpan full of hot sweetness and fresh aroma 
carried under her arms.

“I knew you had been spenting the last few days all alone, poor 
woman, husband away working for hard earned coin. He is working 
away, is he not? Dear Gods, I hope it's not some fiendish tale to 
fool you and damn your family in brothels and gambling houses?”

Celia broke down in laughter which was not easily contained and 
as an added trouble, a morcel of breadpie still being chewed was 
inadvertently stuck between her stomach and her mouth, prompting 
her to start coughing fervently, but at the same time, folding 
herself across her belly as much as her situation permitted, 
laughing, choking, and coughing at the same time, if that was at 
all possible.

Lady Rovenia was dumbstruck at Celia's reaction but she was quick 
to act as well. She found a small alcove on Celia's kitchen wall 
to set the still warm breadpan, and then hurried to the drinking 
bucket, and poured a large cup of water for Celia to wash the 
troubling piece of food down.

Celia, still trying to recover from her attack of hysterical 
laughter, and still coughing, took the proferred cup of water, 
and drank in large gulps. Some of the water ran down her cheeks 
and neck, some of it she spluttered while coughing, but most of 
it washed the breadpie down, and she could safely breathe again, 
now laughing because of the way she nearly choked. Lady Rovenia 
seemed terrified, a pale look of worry drawn all over her small 
wrinkled face, but managed to say in a quavering voice full of 
concern:

“For the Grace of the Gods, girl! I only brought the pie to 
sweeten your life, not end it like a candle blown away!”, and 
lifted the cup away from Celia's smiling lips.

“Lady Rovenia, had I known you had such a roaring imagination I 
would have kept you company more often than not! Amonas, in 
brothels, and gambling? Perhaps you'd suggest he was a drunkard 
too?”, Celia said smiling widely, pulling up a chair for the old 
lady to sit in first, and then one for herself, back straightened 
out and carefully managing the space between her belly and the 
kitchen table.

“You thought it funny and a product of wild imagination but in my 
many years I have seen the like of what you should never believe 
possible, probable or in any way imaginable, but I have, and 
there is one thing men can be trusted for: trust them not!”, the 
old lady said while waving one finger wildly as if casting 
cantrips with an invisible yet powerful wand of magic like the 
one in fairy tales and ancient stories. 

“I have nothing much to say to that, my good lady Rovenia, only 
that Amonas is not just any man, and had he been such a one, I 
would not have loved him for once, much less marry him or carry 
his child.”, her voice sparkling with admiration and notes as if 
made of honeydew clinching her every word.

“If that's what how you feel alright, but men change. Be wary 
girl, that's all I say. How are you coming along?”, the old lady 
smiled heartily and touched Celia's belly lightly, delicately, 
with hands that had offered the same kind touch perhaps hundreds 
of times, over the years.

“I can have no complaints. The child is mindful of me, I can 
sense it. It sleeps mostly when I do, and his kicks and 
restlessness are but tiny nudges. Some mornings I feel sick, and 
no amount of clean air helps. But I gather that is only natural.”

“It is girl, but tell me? Do you eat for two? Do you feed 
yourself properly or do you think an appetite is woeful feeling? 
Do you sleep well enough?”, the old woman's voice sounding loud 
in a preaching tone, almost scolding the young mother to be, her 
one hand slapping the table surface mildly, in time with her 
little less than accusing questions.

“I eat well enough, dear Rovenia. I eat as much as I feel full 
and then some more. And then I can hardly breathe, and have to 
pace around the house or go outside for a little walk for my 
stomach to settle down properly. Have no worries about me or the 
child.”, said Celia, clasping the other woman's hands in her own.

“I'll worry if I like to and you can say none otherwise. How are 
you sleeping now? You seem like you had a troubled sleep, your 
hair is tousled and your skin has an off tone. You're not sick 
are you?”

“No Gods forbid, no. I was twisting a bit in my sleep, and then 
when I woke up I smelled that breadpie of yours and came rushing 
outside to find out who.. Oh dear me, I'm such an awful host! 
Should I start a fire, boil some water for uwe or keplis right 
away?”

“No need to rush dear. I'll help you along. I might be old but 
I'm not an invalid, not yet Gods forbid.”

“And we'll munch some of that nice breadpie of yours. Tell me 
then, aren't you scared of the Watchday's proscription? What if 
someone with malice in his heart goes and gives your name to the 
Ministers? And with such a strong smell, perhaps they'll smell it 
of their own accord, down to the Tower itself!”

“My lovely girl, if I was scared of such things, I would have 
died of fear a long time ago. As it is, I couldn't care less what 
they think of me and whether or not there are rats above the 
sewers as well. And what would the Ministry do to a poor old lady 
like me, for baking a sweet bread on a Watchday? Lash me like the 
heretic I am? No, child. Their mind works like one of those 
steamers, all brawn, power and rashness. Let them think the world 
can work like one of their machines, all steam and air. Arrogant 
and self-important. Dear me, I can feel my blood rising in my 
ears.”

“Now then no need for your blood to gorge like that, you are safe 
here in our house, I promise you, I swear in my unborn child, 
what I cherish most. Calm yourself, and have some of your lovely 
breadpie to sweeten your sour taste.Come.”, Celia said to Rovenia 
in her most calm and assuring tone, the one she felt really 
calmed Amonas and brought him peace and serenity.

“I'm fine girl, I'm fine. Let's forget about them, since they 
can't appreciate a fine breadpie. Now, eat!”, said the old woman 
with a disarming smile and they happily ate away.

And with that they passed the time until the evening arrived, 
exchanging stories and tales, but mostly Rovenia telling her the 
story of her life in many small parts, whatever little story she 
felt most appropriate at any time, whether it be funny, sad, or 
in some curious circumstances, both.

Celia was drawn to the old woman's tales like a kitten to warm 
milk. At first she sipped them slowly, and then drank them all in 
as if catering for an insatiable desire to listen to everyday 
tales of an old midwife and caring neighbour. Celia thought old 
Rovenia would be quite fitting for the task, and the old woman 
lovingly knocked her door from time to time to check how she was 
doing, if her health was anything less than adamant, and if the 
baby kicked and felt lively enough.

From time to time she scolded her for not taking good care of 
herself, not eating enough quality meat, and there never seemed 
to be enough greens in her kitchen for that woman's taste. 

She insisted on Celia eating lots of eggs and milk if she could 
cope with it on a daily basis, and drink lots of uwe, said to be 
good for everything, from the blood to the bones. And when the 
child would stirr troubled, the best medicine would be to sing to 
it, sing from her heart, whatever soothed and pleased her.

When the old lady finally left the house, it was more from polite 
awareness of the time that had melted away from the hearty 
discussion, almost like one between an anxious soon-to-be 
grandmother and her pregnant daughter. 

Celia had never known her mother, and her father was killed in 
the Pacification of Zaelin, little enough to understand almost 
nothing around her, but old enough to remember her father kissing 
her goodbye for the last time, his kiss at once somber and warm 
to the touch. She had grown up with her grandparents, who loved 
her more than possible and raised her better than a daughter. 
They had died before they could see her wed.

Celia offered the old lady to stay for the rest of the day, 
provide her valuable insight and experience in cooking the next 
day's meal, but Rovenia said it was unhealthy for the baby to 
stay inside for long, and that she should definetely go on a walk 
while there was still any sunlight left, since nighttime in Pyr 
was less than a proper place for an expecting woman, the light of 
the lamps leaving more to the shadow than seemed wise and proper. 

So, like most ladies at her age, she would retire in the warmth 
of her small house, and pass the time weaving jedoons and other 
pieces of cloth that might come in handy, or not. And then she 
laughed briefly but genuinely, and went next door, leaving Celia 
to tend to her own household in peace.

She did just that for some time, idling away at brooming and 
cleaning the house as much as her straining back allowed, and 
then she brought firewood from their small cellar, and paused for 
a while before starting a fire anew for tomorrow's meal, perhaps 
some stew, perhaps a broth of beans and greens, a recipe Rovenia 
had suggested while they were idly gnawing at her breadpie.

She stood with a few small pieces of firewood cupped into her 
arms, when the thought flashed in her head unwanted: she was out 
of uwe, again! She left the tiny logs aside on the small kitchen 
table and went upstairs to fetch her small purse of coins. 

She then made sure she hadn't actually started off an untended 
fire, drew her broadly-hemmed cloak around her and darted off 
towards the market, light waning, the falling dusk painting the 
distant encircling hills in an orange and purple hue, some of the 
rooftops in Pyr shedding a brown-yellow sheen.

The city crowd on the streets was shifting towards its nocturnal 
aspect, the ones that rarely venture outside if the suns still 
abound, and rarely crawl back to their domiciles before dawn is 
about to break. Loud song and cheers, sounds of merrymaking and 
laughter could be heard at least once in every street that she 
passed on her way to Ves, the farmer she knew was her kin, a 
cousin in fact, and tried not to fool her like others in the 
market did.

She wasn't sure if she would make it in time, for at this hour 
Ves as well as almost everyone else with farms or animals to 
tend, had to leave for his farmstead, eat and rest, before 
getting up in the middle of the night, watering whatever plants 
needed so, then harvesting those ready for the market, and then 
loading up his cart and off he would be to the market once more 
to make some coin, for his wife and children not to beg like some 
who were cast adrift in the unfathomable torrents of fortune.

She could see them, dishevelled beings, sometimes 
indistinguishable from animals, sometimes bringing a sore tear to 
her eyes. Some she helped as she could, a loaf of bread or her 
daily bottle of milk. Sometimes she would leave a plate of fodd 
for those that drifted throughout the city and did not just await 
their end at some dark corner of the market, either stamped upon, 
trodden by mistake or not, sometimes hunted as a passtime by men 
drunk enough or too clearheaded to care as they ended their 
horrid lives, bringing on a fate only fit for nightmares.

As she turned the last corner before she reached Ves' usual 
stand, she could see she was too late, Ves as well as everyone 
else having departed for the night, leftover fruit and vegetable 
stalks amassing on the cobbled streets, a sour acrid odor wafting 
all around her. If nothing else at all, she had indeed taken a 
walk, though at an inappropriate hour, and she should be getting 
home before long.

As she turned around to start walking back towards her house, she 
was frozen where she lay, when a mailed hand seemed to stretch 
from utterly nowhere, some shadowy crevice, some chasm in a wall 
she hadn't noticed in her dimly lit surroundings, a surreptitious 
figure that seemed well-disposed towards her, or else she would 
be already lying in a pool of her blood, for what little coin she 
carried in her tiny purse, or things worse than an untimely death 
that she dared not imagine while carrying her child still in her 
womb.

“Lady Celia, be still and fear not. I am Kin, and I bear news for 
you: Philo has been arrested, but your husband has not.”, the 
man's voice steady, straightforward, serious and business-like.

“And Amonas?What of him?Is he dead?”, she managed to utter in 
total disbelief, a well-practiced phrase in her head, her moment 
of fear given body through her quivering low voice, a stutter 
barely avoided, her lips trembling, her eyes narrowed down to 
small ovals, what little blue was left exposed to the light of 
the lamps, flashing with terror. Her hands had instinctively gone 
to her belly, hugging it closer than ever, as if she feared the 
child would be needlessly drawn away from her, a life unborn for 
a life given.

“Hush mylady, we know not. But no body to be found, or a trace of 
cloth, we can be sure. Have hope, Lady Celia. And let not a soul 
know of this.”, the man left a hint of consolation in his voice 
but none of that would be enough for Celia now.

He was gone as silently and instantly as he had appeared, through 
the unseen folds of the night, a messenger in the dark, grim and 
hollow thoughts in his wake.

She ran back to the house, tears running down her pale cheeks. 
Blood had left her face, and coldness crept in like endless tides 
of water running under a door. The laughing crowds became a 
sorrowful noise in her mind, a weeping in her heart. She ran up 
to their bedroom, feeling the baby stir uneasily, as if it knew 
something was amiss. 

She lay down on their bed, put on her wedding gossamer tirval, 
and wept until she could weep no more and her tears dried and her 
numb mind sent her into a merciful sleep.




  Of the Sun and Moon

“We will get back.”

“Well that's what you keep saying. Is it that difficult to accept 
the fact we are now, thanks to your efforts, terminally lost?”

Hilderich was picking ineffectually at the withering bark of a 
large oak-like tree, swarms of ants running up and down its 
length, tiny flecks of dead wood on their backs. The tree was 
turning into ashes, returning into the dirt, one very small piece 
at a time. Hilderich was quite fascinated by what he was seeing 
all around him and that was probably why he had not broken down 
in hysterical cries because of their mishap. 

Which was also why he could blame Amonas for their predicament, 
in a steady, calm, matter-of-factly and somewhat detached, 
distant tone of voice. Half his mind was infuriated, close to 
bursting actually, because Amonas seemed to have had 
inadvertently stranded them on somewhere. The other half of his 
mind was trying to make connections between the flora and fauna 
of this general area, place, whatever one might call it, and the 
various curatoria he believed he remembered having some kind of 
relation in part or in whole.

Indirectly, this was Hilderich's way of coping with the problem 
in hand, partly to offset his mind and unburden it from stress, 
anxiety, and generally what he had learned to consider 
counter-productive emotions. 

And on top of that, he was actually trying to help in his own 
lateral way, by trying to identify anything he might be able to, 
based on whatever curatoria he had studied or seen in his 
unfortunately short and, recent events not withstanding, 
uneventful apprenticeship. It seemed that apart from superficial 
resemblances and some generic common traits, he had arrived at no 
particularly useful conclusion. For the time being, he reminded 
himself silently and thoughtfully.

Amonas was sitting at a partly exposed root of a gigantic kind of 
a tree he had trouble accepting that was real, even though he had 
been sitting right there, on the same spot, for the better part 
of an hour, silent, thoughtful and certainly perplexed, even 
though Hilderich had spared little of the last hour discussing 
with Amonas, or simply looking at the man's face, which would be 
enough for the even the most socially inept, slow-witted and 
sentimentally detached human to understand the man was deeply 
troubled, almost morose, and not without good cause.

Insects abounded in this humid environment, the likes of which he 
had not known existed, not even in the southern-most bogs and 
marshes. Sweat poured from their bodies incessantly, making their 
every movement a sticky, messy business. It was the heat. The 
heat of desert combined with the water, the moisture, of a lake 
or river. 

They had seen no river whatsoever from the top of the hill where 
they had emerged, and had come upon no body of water in their 
blind search so far. The humidity and heat of the place was 
overwhelming; Amonas thought they should devote most of their 
time and effort into simply staying alive for the time being. 
That meant finding a source of clean, fresh water, preferably by 
nightfall.

Amonas' mind buzzed incessantly with the same thought; it was 
indeed his fault. Hilderich had been right. His initial purpose 
when pushing Hilderich into that infernal pillar of light, that 
machinery truly in its makers' image, was to force him to see the 
truth. 

The first time he himself had stepped through that beacon of 
light, he had been instantly transferred into a huge, deep 
cavern, walls of solid metal jutting out of the bedrock, an 
incomprehensible labyrinth of large metal pipes, 
interconnections, spines and all manners of weird machinery and 
constructs the likes of which he could not believe were made by 
mere men, but rather by Gods, or their offspring or servants. 

He had seen words in High Helican he had not seen before, 
dangling in the air around him as if stamped with thick light on 
a giant spider's gossamer web. He had seen visions of gruesome 
death, savagery and bloody toil, endlessly replayed as if it all 
was a theatrical stage, and he was a lucky viewer.

He had seen so much more he needed to forget as well, but could 
not, in fact, dared not forget, lest the hatred for their 
jailers, captors, these madmen, would diminish, ever so 
imperceptibly as to make one think that it was still raging as 
blistering as ever. The words he lacked to describe the sickening 
mob of rulers who moved freely about like a sickle does unto 
stalks of wheat. 

No such euphemism of words like dictator, or killer, would really 
suffice to describe them completely. He felt like he would have 
to leave that to someone else, since in the end, he might not 
even be able to slit their throats in person.

Without knowing, he seemed to have been gripping his knife from 
its blade, so intensely he had cut himself, a small rivulet of 
blood and sweat running down his wrist, droplets of rosy red 
falling down onto the constantly wet ground. Ever thirsty and 
never quenched, be it blood, water or both, these new lands 
seemed to feed on desperation and sweat. His focus returned to 
the immediate reality around them and felt the sagging weight of 
the situation. 

He had to have faith in himself: he was a man of action, and he 
had already decided to forfeit his life if it came to that. 
Others were capable of carrying out the same mission as he was 
supposed to. If he could not do so in the end, he only felt it 
was wrong for Celia, and their unborn child. Lovely Celia.. 

He looked up to the alien looking sky, so familiar but so 
different at the same time. He could remember his days of 
ignorance and blissful youth, riding in the countryside, 
galloping fast and hard as if the world's end was rushing right 
behind him. And the sky had this strange quality, a light blur, a 
haze of wonder, looking as if it was a mere ceiling he could 
reach up and touch as long as he wished it hard enough.

He would not perish here, he decided. It was as simple as that. 
He would keep his promises and find his way back, to make things 
right. To free his fellow men. To live life anew, reborn. As 
fresh and innocent as his firstborn would be. It was time to act, 
secure any means of survival in this strange land, acclimatise 
themselves quickly, for who knew how long their journey back 
would take, and have faith, in themselves, and their purpose. 

It should be Hilderich's now as well, even though he cannot yet 
grasp the extend of the lies, deceit, and exploitation. He should 
be able to put Hilderich to some good use as well; the man who 
was a little older than a mere boy had good qualities. He was 
smart and perceptive, suspicious but not predisposed, simple but 
not simple-minded. He would be fine. They would be fine. After 
they worked out some of the issues involved, though.

The suns were wrong, for starters. There was only one sun here, 
and it seemed brighter than usual, but smaller, the hue of its 
light an almost lime green. And then there were the towers, or 
spirals, he wasn't sure how to describe them. Hideously tall and 
thin towers in pairs, a low crescent shape adjoining them. 

They kind of reminded him of bull horns, if he had to describe 
them more plainly. Far away in the distance, were the haze 
allowed it, they could make out not one of these monumentally 
proportioned constructs, but a dozen or more, in regular 
intervals. They were fascinating, but largely irrelevant at this 
point. 

He had thought about broaching these matters to Hilderich, but he 
decided against that for now. The detailed intricacies of their 
whereabouts, their actual location, the climate and topography of 
the region, were merely academic issues if they would not provide 
a small shred of actual information that would lead them to 
somehow going back to Pyr, or any recognisable place for that 
matter, in the Territories or elsewhere in the world.

He was still absorbed in thought, eyes piercing the tall canopy 
of thick foliage, the huge volume of the surrounding trees 
standing like rocky pillars between two worlds: their own earthen 
cradle which defined them by preventing their return, and the 
other, the heavenly shell of a world that they were yet to reach, 
the world back home, their haven.

Hilderich literally slapped him back into the real world, the 
palm of his hand wet and sticky, his cheek flush from the hit.

“Are you listening? Are you here? Gods help me, he was insane to 
begin with now he is catatonic! Amonas!”

Hilderich was shouting now, still thinking Amonas was 
day-dreaming or far worse, had finally lost his, so he thought, 
fragile mind. As he swung his hand back once more to deliver 
another slap, Amonas turned his head ever so lightly and looked 
him straight in the eye, and simply said:

“Don't. No need. I must thank you, actually. I was thinking. I 
was, overly engrossed in thought I must admit. Were you calling 
me out for long?”

Hilderich was genuinely surprised at such behavior. Had Amonas 
been catatonic, he would never really respond and then he would 
be left alone, and with his survival skills and his latest round 
of luck, perish in this steamy cauldron. If he was indeed mad, he 
probably go berserk and snap his neck like a twig if he was lucky 
enough. It seemed now that he was neither. He was simply, as 
strange as it seemed to Hilderich at the time, hard at thought. 

He sat down in front of Amonas, on the leaf strewn ground, wet 
and muddy, a continuous hint of rotting vegetation waxing and 
waning from the faint whisps of air, a fitting reminder of what 
happens to idle life. Hilderich cleared his throat and while 
still looking at the ground, toying around with a small branch, 
idly looking at the ground, he asked with some reluctance:

“Amonas. This is real, right? This is not a trick, not some very 
elaborate way of forcing me to join whatever it is you meant to 
in the first place? Is it?”

Amonas bit his lip and answered, palms outstretched, an ornate 
ring of silver and copper catching the eyes of Hilderich for the 
first time. He seemed to draw some breath, then pausing briefly 
as if he intended to say otherwise before nodding in acceptance 
and telling Hilderich:

“It's real Hilderich. That is what has dragged me down in 
thought. I am sorry Hilderich, my intentions were quite 
different, and certainly did not involve getting utterly lost, 
especially at such a moment in time. I know I have failed you so 
far Hilderich, so I will promise you nothing. I can only offer 
you my help in order to find a way home. Preferably, while we 
still draw breath.”, a bitter smile forming on his lips, his head 
turning to look once more at the thick foliage, hoping to catch a 
glimpse of the strangely immaculate, perfectly cloudless sky.

When Amonas looked down again, he noticed Hilderich had fallen on 
his back giggling almost maniacally, his knees bent haplessly in 
a comical angle, arms folded across his chest, hands clapping 
with the whole of his palms. Amonas frowned quizzically, 
Hilderich's bizarre reaction to his statement leaving him unable 
to understand or much less respond at all.

“You? Offer to help me?”

Hilderich sat upright, legs sprawled in an uncomfortable 
position, his hand pointing at his own face in sheer disbelief, 
his voice a falcetto. His face looked suddenly harsh, 
unforgiving, out of place with his normal self, and then he 
raised an accusing finger at Amonas, saying to him in a calm and 
studied manner, as if lecturing a man of lesser intelligence:

“Not to insinuate that you have done a very poor job so far, but 
please, indulge me. How can you, help me, find a way home. Are 
you perhaps a magician of the old tales? I think not dear friend, 
since then you would be in posession of a cone-shaped hat, 
talking gibberish even while you sleep, though I cannot yet vouch 
for the verity or not of that particular supposition. Another 
possible way in which you might be of help would be that you are, 
in fact, a fallen angel of the Gods, who has yet to use his 
superlative powers in my favor because he is as ever trying to 
teach me a lesson in humility and religious awe, lest my soul is 
eternally condemned in Catharteria, Damnation, the Twelve Wheels 
of Fire and so on. You seem to be missing your wings, shield, 
divine aura, and angelic face, so I would say no, you can't help 
me like that. I briefly considered that you might actually own 
this particular piece of land and are indeed dying to offload it 
to a dimwhitted fool like myself who might mistake the extreme 
humidity, unbearable heat and overflowing vegetation for 
marshlands suitable for cotton, or something equally senile. 
Without trying to hurt your feelings or vested interests in a 
manner most ungracious, I regret to inform you I find your 
selling points lacking and will not be following up on your 
offer. Now, unless I am mistaken in all of the above, and unless 
you have some button or pillar of light that does the opposite of 
what brought us here, I dare say we are properly doomed, and good 
as dead and finished. Other more vulgar expressions pertaining to 
our present unfortunate situation come to mind, but I will not 
bring myself down to such inestimable depths of bad taste and 
linguistic ineptitude to use them like a debased wretch of lesser 
stature. I will now honestly state my predilections, one, that I 
wish to hang myself at the nearest opportune moment in order to 
escape further unneeded physical torment under these 
circumstances, and two, that I wish for my remains to be burned, 
as is customary under Law.”

All that Amonas could do, was blink, wide-eyed and at a loss for 
words. Hilderich was resting his hands on his knees, cross-legged 
on the wet ground, an air of finality around him, as if a holy 
avatar had announced the end of the world.

Amonas shattered the uneasy silence with a question, uttered in 
complete fascination, a glazed look of mock awe on Amonas face, 
his gruff voice adding tremendously to the intended comcal 
effect:

“Are you sure you weren't studying to become a Minister?”

And with that, they both broke down in hearty laughter, the 
strain of their situation and the accumulated fatigue almost 
vanishing as if washed clear away. An invigorating smile graced 
Hilderich's mouth before he answered in kind:

“Actually I had been thinking about it, but though I can handle 
the dramatics, I am not too keen on handing people over to the 
procastinators for spilling oil or eating sugar on a Watchday.”

Amonas thought there was a lot about Hilderich to muse over when 
time and circumstance would allow it, but there were other more 
pressing matters to attend to first. 

“Hilderich, I'm sure we'll have quite some time to exchange more 
tales. But we have to attend to our survival first. We will need 
fresh, drinking water. And something solid to eat, surely. 
Something that will not easily spoil in this heat and moisture, 
this unlikely combination of marsh and forest. But our priority 
should be water. At the rate we sweat, we will surely suffer the 
most from its lack. And too soon for comfort, I would wager. 
Speaking of which, have you noticed? The shadows, they are 
strange.”

Hilderich nodded, then looked carefully around them, at the barks 
of trees and small rocks and hanging green overgrowths. He looked 
at what one would call a glenn if it weren't for the awfully 
wrong conditions and the green overarching roof made from 
ostensibly ancient tree branches. The canopy was a mosaic of 
green and brown hues, the greenish light of the sun adding an 
emerald glare to the columns of light that shot underneath, where 
Hilderich could see, the shadows stood still.

Indeed, he noticed that the shadows had moved little or not at 
all since earlier. He couldn't be sure, but he knew it was at 
least strange, and probably another indication that they were 
very, very, far away from home. He pointed at a broken log with 
his right hand, a tall outstretched branch casting its shadow on 
a peculiar half-grey, half-bleached stone.

“What time of day would you say it is, Amonas?”, asked Hilderich 
while still pointing his hand in that particular direction.

After little deliberation Amonas answered casually:

“I would say about noon. But I could be mistaken. A few hours 
ago, before we reached this place, night was well under way. And 
then when we came here, it seemed like a bright summer day, the 
sun still rising proudly. My body and mind long for rest, my 
sense of time should be in disarray. But if I woke up right this 
instant, I would've thought I overslept into noon.”

“That shadow was there when we went down from that hill and sat 
here first. I remember because I imagined pouncing your head on 
that rock.”, Hilderich added matter-of-factly.

Amonas frowned, but did not press the issue. Instead, he nodded 
in silent agreement, then said with a careful choice of words, as 
if musing on a worldly matter (which was perhaps on this 
particular case, not an overstatement):

“Then.. If shadows stand still.. Does time as well? Is this a 
limbo of sorts? A jail.. for our souls? If we return, will it be 
as if no time has passed?”

Amonas seemed troubled by these newly found thoughts. Hilderich 
on the other hand had no qualms in throwing Amonas interpretation 
of facts out the window.

“That's nonsense! Even ministers would find that assumption 
idiotic! At best! Master Olom would have you scrubbing the horses 
for a week for even pondering such a connection! I mean, 
scrubbing! Flayed brush and murky water for a week! Grooming a 
horse is no occupation for an aspiring Curator, mind you! And 
especially the horses' parts where..”

Amonas had the decency to interlope and cut Hilderich in 
mid-sentence, offering his timely excuse:

“I trust you will be more forgiving than dear Olom was and should 
the opportunity arise, I will be more than happy to be 
accordingly reproached for making such extravagant 
extrapolations. So what do you think?”, his voice finely and 
expertly tuned to defuse Hilderich's probable ranting and almost 
concede in a sincere fashion that he was out of depth here and it 
would be more wise to let someone who knows better find out what 
is going on.

“Tha shadows during the day are cast because of the suns' light. 
So, when the suns move across the sky, so do the shadows follow 
in hand and move accordingly. Would the suns stay still, so would 
the shadows. It is not entirely without logic to postulate that 
since we have witnessed only one sun, this is perhaps the reason 
for its inability to move, and hence the standing shadows and the 
continuous moon. There it is, a much more simple explanation 
which, as my late master would have said, is usually the right 
one. The sharper, the better.”

“Like a razor then, Olom's razor?”, Amonas grinned to show he 
remembered the old man fondly as well, a shared memory they had 
yet to explore.

“You could call it that, I guess. It might prove to apply in more 
subjects of interested.”

“I hope it does. To me, simplicity is a virtue.”

“Indeed.”

“Now we know it will be noon for an inordinate amount of time, is 
it not wise to assume that it will never be nightfall?”

That had not immediately dawned on Hilderich, and the revelation 
left him looking worried and puzzled, more so because he had not 
followed out his own train of thought completely.

“If that comes to be, then the heat will not dissipate, and this 
will go on until we are able to return, the halflight, 
half-shadow under this monstrous canopy, sweat and grimy mass of 
rotting leaves stuck on our bodies. Or then again we might never 
leave this place. The prospect of spending days or weeks in such 
conditions, whether or not we will be able to go back, makes me 
want to once more consider adopting an inherently expeditious 
approach to making oneself go away.”

Hilderich was seemingly more humorous than before, and his words 
were not to be taken for granted, but Amonas had to admit to the 
fact that this strange sun and taxing climate would make their 
efforts even more strained and difficult that he had calculated. 
And still he feared, they had no solid idea of how to get back 
home. Survival would have to take precedence. And that meant 
finding water, not sooner or later, but immediately.

“Come, we will find water.”, Amonas said decisively, and picked 
up his pace towards a seemingly random direction.

“Under different circumstances that would involve my absence, I 
would be impressedd by your optimism, but I would have to point 
out that water is abundantly present, the problem being that it 
seems to lie on either our own sorry selves, or the ground and 
the slowly rotting plantlife it supports. How do you plan to go 
about doing that, pray tell?”

Hilderich was already on his feet, following Amonas from close 
behind, careful with his steps, avoiding what seemed the most 
grisly pathways and wet spots that held soft matter of dubious 
origins underneath.

“We'll start searching where the plants look thicker, greener and 
more lively. There should be some source of running water, at 
least underground, like the places were we would look to dig a 
well back home. We'll take it slowly, the more we exert 
ourselves, the worse it will be in the end if lady Luck keeps 
running out on us.”, Amonas said while plowing on ahead, working 
his knife in one hand, hacking away any lush growths that proved 
to be obstacles in his path.

“I'm not very excited at what you are suggesting, but I cannot 
think of anything better right now, so I'll just trudge along.”, 
Hilderich admitted with a small hint of grudge in his tone, and 
an almost imperceptibly condescending sort of nod.

A few hours passed, Amonas grinding their way through ever 
thicker vegetation, now stripped naked to the waist, the heat and 
humidity insufferable to bear with his leather vest and chain 
mail underneath that. Hilderich wondered at how the man had 
suffered to carry all that weight at all, never mind wearing all 
that in such conditions, and only choosing not to when after they 
had been walking for the better part of an hour. 

It seemed as if the man had grown literally attached to his set 
of armor, or that its prolonged use had left indelible stains on 
his body. None of those reasons, it seemed, stood to reason. 
Amonas had simply not taken them off because he hadn't felt 
inclined to. That probably spoke volumes for the man's tolerance 
threshold, and what he was capable of going through if pressed, 
but Hilderich thought he had no desire to learn, since he 
believed this whole experience would be if nothing else, 
extremely educational and vividly remembered if there was any 
afterwards to be had.

Amonas seemed to indefatigable. He had trod on through thickset 
lush overgrowths, greens and all sorts of wild vegetation using 
his indispensable knife, and had complained neither for the 
steaming heat or the breath-clogging moisture. Hilderich had 
refrained from asking questions about the reasoning behind their 
apparently random course through this probably impossible to map 
land, lacking great physical characteristics easily identifiable, 
used as points of reference.

Except those twin towers, or bull horns, or giant forks or 
whatever one might wish to call them. The name would be indeed 
useless once one laid eyes upon them. Such majestical structures, 
in the middle of this chaotic spread of plants and everything 
else that should better be left unmet. They were roughly headed 
towards the general direction of one of those structures. 
Structures that mere men could not have wrought, but would have 
had if they could.

Hilderich's concentration was broken by Amonas triumphant voice, 
a hundred or so feet ahead of him, still clearly heard over the 
distance:

“Water, Hilderich! I told you we will find water! Come! It might 
not be cold, but it's not lukewarm either! Come!”

Hilderich felt Amonas was not unreasonably excited about his 
finding, but he could not readily share the joy. His feet though 
he did not complain were hurting, and his feet were a soggy 
affair, not the least bit dry. His light boots had let all the 
moisture in, and their path had guided him through many 
mud-soaked footings. He could feel his skin was not up to the 
task, and he looked miserable to the bone. 

Still, finding water was the first good thing that had happened 
ever since that fine uwe stew, and that previous day seemed like 
another age alltogether. He managed a defiant smile which he 
hoped Amonas would not misunderstand, and carried himself to the 
small trickling water source where Amonas was washing his face.

“Finally then. My mouth feels like a Ministry's rug, like 
everyone's trod on it!”, Hilderich said jokingly, cupping his 
hands under the small trickle of water running down through an 
old tree's bark, like someone had fashioned it specifically for 
that purpose. Luck it would seem, hadn't run dry just yet.

After they had managed to wash away some of the sweat and grit, 
and more importantly, quench their thirst and fill their belly 
with more than water than it could handle, Amonas took Hilderich 
by the arm and suggested to him that they should try and make 
some sort of camp here, near the water. The rain would be coming, 
he said, even with the sun above, since there can be no water 
with no rain. 

And they would have to keep dry, since that was how many folk in 
the sea died, their bodies found almost dried out, dessicated, 
husks rather than flesh. It was because water was attracted to 
water, and the water in the body, the blood, the piss, the spit, 
all that water was drawn away, to the river, or sea, or whatever 
larger body of water you happened to be in. The rich got richer, 
even in nature, perhaps even in this weird land as well. 

In any case, Amonas had convinced Hilderich that it was wiser to 
stay dry, and it would be indeed a welcome change in any case. 
They would have to build a fire to do that, and with all that 
humidity everywhere, he could not for the life of him figure out 
how, but they had found water, so they would build a fire too. Or 
so Amonas said. He was very convincing, Hilderich reassured 
himself before feeling unmistakably hungry, his stomach sounding 
like a cauldron on fire with nothing inside the broth but water.

“We need to eat too.”, Hilderich admitted frankly to Amonas, who 
nodded knowingly.

“I haven't seen a breathing thing yet, only biting insects and 
that's no good if they drink your blood and you try to get back 
at them. Besides, it wouldn't be worth it. No real river or 
stream to try and find fish. We'll have to rely on you then, 
Hilderich. Try and find some kind of root, stem or plant in 
general you think might be safe to eat. I don't mean taste good, 
Hilderich. I really mean, eating it won't kill us, not right off 
anyway. I know I can leave you to it while I gather what wood and 
fiber I can manage to start working on that small tent of ours. 
Have faith in yourself Hilderich, we'll get back.”, said Amonas 
in his usual gruff voice, a friendly tone that suggested and 
inclined more rather than ordered and pushed around. It was the 
voice of a leader, Hilderich realised, a man fit for the task at 
hand: keeping people basically alive.

Hilderich nodded, accepting the task though as with most tasks, 
not knowing if he was really up to it. He turned though once 
before starting to rummage through the thickset leaves and lush 
bushes all around, and asked Amonas:

“I noticed we were roughly headed towards the structures we saw 
from that hill. Do you have something in mind?”

“You noticed, eh?I thought you would. I don't have something 
particular, just more of a feeling, an urge if you like. And to 
be honest, what more is there to look around here? If there's 
some kind of a device similar to the one that brought us here, 
we're better off looking at one of those things, before scouring 
the whole damned land hoping to blindly stumble upon one.”

“That's true.”

Amonas went about making a make-shift tent, and Hilderich finding 
something edible. Within less than half an hour, Amonas had laid 
down a few logs, half rotten and half dead, but good enough for 
the job in hand. He had stacked them so as to make a simple crude 
roof, and then covered that simple skeleton with snapped off 
fresh branches and twigs, and overlaid huge thick leaves from the 
innumerable plants available. 

He hoped these would suffice, and once he had massed enough 
pieces of wet yet not soggy wood, he piled it down neatly in a 
firestack, wishing his flint and stone would be enough to get the 
fire going. He called out to Hilderich, to check if he had found 
anything. While he received no reply for a few moments, the 
moment he started to feel worried about his whereabouts, 
Hilderich popped out of a cluster of bushes, with what seemed an 
armful of fine large mushrooms.

“There's more!Fantastic really!Of all places, renia mushrooms 
this size, here!My grandfather would have a fit!”, Hilderich 
shouted enthusiastically, walking over the stacked wood, looking 
for a good place to leave his priceless armful of mushrooms, but 
displeased with all available options decided to just stand 
there, a load of mushrooms twice the size of his fists carried on 
his arms.

Amonas smiled, greatly pleased and mildly surprised, both for 
their luck as well as the gleam in Hilderich's eyes, a genuine 
expression of happiness, however transient and irrelevant in the 
long run, it was good for morale. Hilderich's and his as well.

“Put those down and help me get the fire going.”, Amonas nodded 
over the stacked wood.

“Oh no. I've never started a fire in the woods before. I'd be 
useless. Always used a bottle of .. Oh, you might be 
inadvertently correct in your proposal. I'm telling you though, 
you will be eating the ones that touch this sorry excuse for a 
ground.”

Hilderich indeed lowered his body, almost in a squat position, to 
put down the load of mushrooms as intact as possible, a somewhat 
neat pile that did not immediately crumble when he let go of his 
arms. He then searched through the numerous pockets in his vest, 
and procured a small metal flask, which he proferred to Amonas 
with a radiant, beaming smile.

“Gin. Fine grain, citrus taste. A distil of mine, from time to 
time. Well, frankly, more likely when master Olom would be away 
on important business. But, I insist, my distil. He never touched 
the stuff.”, Hilderich's voice playfully mischievous.

“Well, you are more than meets the eye Hilderich D'Augnacy.”, 
Amonas grinned while taking the small flask and dabbing with it 
some more or less dry cloth from his own garments, then placing 
it where the fire should be lit.

“Which reminds me, Amonas, you seem to know my name, though you 
haven't yet very well met me. You told me only just yesterday, 
that Amonas was the name I needed to know, and the rest would be 
revealed to me in due time. I believe, the time is long due, 
wouldn't you say?”

“You are right, friend. I do owe you that and still more.”

Amonas was busy with his knife and nicely shaped and sized rock, 
that seemed to spark properly. With a couple of more efforts on 
his behalf, sparks flew into the gin-soaked piece of cloth and 
the fire leapt out as if beckoned by a spirit of old, rushing, 
blazing like it should.

“Amonas Ptolemy, friend to those that wish it, enemy to many. 
Husband to one.”

Hilderich could sense the sorrowful note in his voice, his wife 
understandably a part of him, part of his name.

“I'm sure she'll be quite happy to greet you on our return, will 
she not?”, his tone uplifting, playful, a smile forming on his 
face even as he put a nice whole piece of mushroom through a 
stick, getting ready to roast it over yet undone coals.

“I am sure she will, just not as sure that she will be as happy 
as I will.”, Amonas answered in kind, he too, skewering a 
mushroom head cut in slices with his knifes through a stick of 
handy size.

“Well I'm quite happy around these lovelies here.”, said 
Hilderich amusingly, gesturing at the small pile of mushrooms, 
with the hint of an innuendo that would make master Olom 
instantly bash his head with whatever in hand at the time of 
uttering.

They ate until they were full, and their sense of taste and smell 
satisfied beyond mere hunger. The fire was burning well now, 
clothes hung overhead with a well balanced piece of wood and some 
of the hanging green ropes of vegetation seemed to dry 
sufficiently. Hilderich had laid down on top of his cloak, feet 
outstretched, drying out close to the warmth of the fire. 

Amonas had lit a pipe with what he thought passed for uwe around 
here, and puffed away, lost in thought. He had offered some to 
Hilderich who politely refused, and instead downed a few sips of 
his own distil. As if it had been bothering him for days on end, 
Amonas turned and asked Hilderich:

“Won't you sleep now? You must be exhausted from all this. I was 
a soldier once, I've known similar hardship. But you? You should 
be half-way home in a dream by now.”

“I know what you mean. I feel like a metal press was weighing me 
down and now that I ate and laid myself to rest, it has been 
lifted. I should have fallen soundly asleep, as you say.”

“And what's keeping you, Hilderich?”

“The moon. There's no bloody moon to fall asleep under.”




  Machina Segnis

The suns seemed to have risen earlier on that day, or at least 
the Castigator's people definetely had. At every level of office 
and hierarchy, the living mechanisms of the Ministry, the Army 
and the Procastinators were of singular mind and purpose. The 
Castigator had announced that in two weeks time the wrathful 
military might of the Outer Territories would be ready to march 
for war. Something that had not happened in the past 25 years.

In every single office and chamber of the various organisations 
of people and ruling institutions, the situation was almost the 
same, if one would take into account the multitude of minor 
variations in disciplinary strictness, interpersonal roles and 
affiliations, as well as structural differences and the specific 
nomenclature of each branch of service. 

Lesser officials busied themselves with arranging communiques, 
writing down orders and manifests, then calling for couriers or 
perhaps taking it upon themselves to forward the appropriate 
documents and even materiel to their intended recipients. It 
would be anathema to any one in that overwhelmingly complex 
machine of sorts that he should singularly fail in the most 
simple of orders. 

If anything were to happen to this whole enterprise, this 
majestic war footing, this Holy Campaign, issued by the Gods, 
commanded by the Castigator himself, then it would not be because 
a lowly clerk or young lieutenant forgot to sent out some 
materiel recquisition form, or a call-to-arms teller. And indeed, 
if this Campaign was to fail because of a human error, in such a 
catastrophic way, before it even began to put itself into motion, 
everyone performed beyond their absolute best to ensure that it 
would not be on their account, on their watch.

Diligence was considered a virtuous characteristic, and most 
Law-abiding parents tried to hammer that into their children if 
they had to, so as to become proper people, upholding the Law 
whenever they could, serving from any place in society they might 
reach up to. Those that the Gods seemed to favor most, were 
selected to enter public service, either as Ministers, 
Procastinators, or Army men, according to how well they performed 
at the Agogeia. 

Select officials from these three embodiments of rule and order 
taught at the Agogeia, schools for those that could afford to 
become something useful in their lives. Once the basics such as 
obedience to Law, reciting scripture, and fairly simple counting 
and swordfighting skills were taught, the best of each class of 
children were selected according to the inclination, 
receptiveness, and skill they showed at the various tests and 
games carried out for the very same purpose of separating the 
wheat from the chaff, those capable of serving the people and the 
Gods. 

Some, those better skilled in memory, oration, the use of 
language and emotion, capable of swaying their fellow students to 
their own purpose, were further trained to become Ministers, 
further trained into the teachings and trappings of Law, how to 
best interpret Law according to need, how to teach, enlighten, 
and chastise laymen, and how to impress and guide hundreds if not 
thousands of people as Law, Ministry, and Ruling Council 
dictated. 

They would be responsible for the enlightenment of the people, 
teaching them the Law, and helping them avoid the temptations 
that would lead to blasphemy, heresy, casting out, eternal 
damnation, and a most probably gruesome, demeaning execution that 
would serve as a reminder and a lesson that All is Law, and noone 
and nothing is above it. The Ministers would also tend to the 
daily running of the Territories, as administrative officials, 
collecting offerings, making amendments to the lesser decrees of 
the Law to better handle the multitude of people and the 
realities of land of the living required, with its economy, 
trade, and needs. 

The spending of coin for public works would be decided and then 
dispersed accordingly to those noble houses that could field 
enough manpower to make it happen, like roads, bridges, canals, 
buildings, walls, mills and workshops and every other resource 
that would the Territories grow and prosper, for the glory of the 
Pantheon. And one of their number would be chosen from the 
Castigator, with the blessings of the Patriarch, to be the next 
Archminister, the one blessed to be the voice and heart of the 
Ministry. 

Those of the Agogeia students who were energetic, athletic 
students, showing exceptional stamina and strength, exemplifying 
martial prowess with the blade and their bare hands, those who 
were blessed with possessing a sharp decisive mind, had proven to 
be of faith unfailing and a stone hard dedication to the 
Pantheon, those were chosen as fit for service in the Army. 

Rigorous training in all the known aspects of warfare was their 
only occupation until death, whether or not they were called upon 
to act, kill or be killed in service to the Gods, they would 
train with sword and spear, shield and horse, until old age came, 
when they would carry on with training others of their kind, in 
matters such as the planning and design of warfare where a mind 
should be much more fit than the body. 

Their training started with single combat techniques, with many 
different weapons, under different situations and varying levels 
of duress. Then they progressed into squad tactics, in the open 
field, against other types of units, like cavalry, or steamers 
and artillery. And then they would rotate into the rest of the 
units, for their training to be complete and be able to use 
everything from their empty hands to a complex steamer machine, 
and be knowledgeable in the weakness and strength of each one, 
being able to select the best course of action and what kind of 
men, machine or animal it would require to be successful. 

These were the core lessons they were taught: strength in 
knowledge, success in adaptability, glory in death. As they 
progressed through the standings of the Army, always according to 
their merit and degree of success in their duties, always keeping 
in mind their faithful devotion, through their accrued experience 
they learned more about handling men, materiel, and equipment, 
organisation, designing and planning with tens of thousands in 
mind, as one day they might be called upon to lead the whole Army 
as Generals, in the name of the Pantheon first, and the 
Castigator second.

Those that did not excel in anything, but showed average skill at 
wielding a sword, and could learn enough of the Law as needed 
orally, those did not learn to read and write like the Minister's 
did, nor train further in order to excel into combat. These 
children were strictly chosen for their ability to follow the 
letter of the Law, blindly, unerringly, keep a watchful eye for 
signs of heresy and insubordination, any element that was an 
affront the Pantheon, and the Law, anything that defied the Law 
or its upholders in spirit or in letter. 

These were the ever watchful eye of the Castigator, the arm that 
made the Law reach into every heart, body, and mind, the 
Procastinators. Their training was simple, crude, and effective, 
hammering into them the utmost loyalty unto the Law, as well as 
teaching them how to use people in order to learn all that there 
is, all that is going on, the rumours, the happenings, the 
weddings and deaths, births and oath-takings. 

Everything that went on not just in Pyr, but everywhere in the 
Territories, they had to know. And if the need arose, they 
disciplined, re-enlightened, or fetch to the Ministers those they 
deemed suspicious or genuinely guilty of sin. And then they 
enforced the Law and the divine will of the Ministry, 
unflinching, following the credo that All is Law. And if they 
performed impeccably, surely they would have the honour of 
becoming Procastinator Militant, part of the Ruling Council, the 
left hand of the Castigator himself.

It was a structure that had been handed down from the Gods 
themselves, so its purpose and form were Holy, and any talk of 
reform, change, or deviation from the established was treated at 
best as blasphemy, but usually as expressing heresy, and was 
treated accordingly by public torture and death. 

None were exempt from such punishment, especially the men in the 
Ruling Council, who were the paragon of Law itself to all the 
people. Such a hideous concept was not unknown, that a man in the 
Ruling Council would denounce the Gods by commiting or speaking 
heresy, for it happened long before, in a past almost rightly 
forgotten and excised from the Annals of the Territories, but 
still lingering in peoples' memory as Shan's Betrayal, a myth to 
freighten the children into obeying, a fable to instruct and put 
the fear of the Gods into the soul of men.

Shan had been a General of the Army, at a time when the 
Territories had not grown past the lands around Pyr. When the 
Ruling Council decided it was time to enlighten the nearby shores 
of Urfall, Shan was reluctant, at first. The story says he was 
publicly chastised, with a hundred lashes to his body edging him 
close to death. 

Because he was deemed an exceptional strategist and a peerless 
tactician, he was once more asked to lead the armies that would 
enlighten Urfall, instead of being stripped of office and rank 
and live on the streets as a beggar, given the opportunity to 
redeem himself in the eyes of the Pantheon, the people and the 
Castigator. He acceded, and the armies marched off, gleaming in 
their metal armor, the blessings of the Castigator sung over the 
Southern Gates of Pyr. Within a few weeks, Shan's armies seemed 
lost, no message of the war reaching Pyr, and no messengers from 
Pyr ever returning.

One day, Shan appeared over the hills encircling Pyr, and had 
with him not only the armies he had marched off with weeks 
before, but horses, and men and catapults and hellish 
contraptions that spurted fire and death, from Urfall. He had 
spread the heresy to the armies like the mythic whores of old 
spread disease, like the cancer that spreads from the roots of a 
tree to its leaves and brings about its death. And he had the 
Urfalli with him, their machines working in unfathomable ways, 
the products of heretical pacts with the forces of evil.

He reached the Gates of Pyr and demanded the surrender first and 
foremost of the Ruling Council, and had the ineffable audacity to 
accuse the Council of lies and crimes to the people, twisting the 
word of the Law and speweing horrific untruths. It was an attempt 
to poison the minds of everyone in the city as well, promising 
that none of those who surrendered willingly would be hurt in any 
way, and a fair trial would be arranged for all. 

Except for the Council, who would be executed after their 
supposed lies had been exposed and their non-existent crimes 
against men proved unquestionably. Such heretic lies had never 
been uttered or thought of before, and never would again, their 
venomous treachery so base, the Castigator himself is said to 
have cried in desperation, for he had never thought a dearly 
loved brother like Shan would fall from grace like that.

The city was utterly defenseless, save but a few procastinators 
and old army tutors, and lowly farmers, herders, artisans and 
traders that had not yielded shield, spear or sword not once in 
their lives. The armies of Shan had cast away all form of 
decency, form or honor, and turning into a heretic rabble, had 
begun to scour the lands, pillaging, raping, and burning, before 
what they thought would be the grand feast of Pyr itself.

But they never managed to sink their putrid claws and teeth into 
the immaculate flesh of the City of Pyr, for it was protected by 
the Gods, as are all their faithful and humble servants. For when 
the time was nigh, and all seemed lost, the Castigator Hanul 
Ofodor the 1st, retired from the halls of the Disciplinarium, and 
went deep into the Sacred Vaults, where he and the Patriarch 
offered their blood to commune with the Gods, and ask for 
deliverance in that time of need. 

For a day and a night, while the heretic hordes of Shan looted 
and pillaged, and while the outer walls of Pyr were about to 
fall, an angel sent from the Gods appeared in their image, 
casting brilliant rays of cleansing light, and annihilating the 
armies of Shan who had no other recourse but to flee like the 
vermin they were. None escaped the angel's wrath, who spread the 
cleansing fire to every last part of Shan's army.

When the Day of Redemption had passed, the City of Urfall and its 
majestic harbor and proud workshops were all extinguished in a 
ball of light so pure in its wrath that those who saw it with 
bare eyes went blind, and would forever be praised in their lives 
as Martyrs of the Wrath of the Gods, spreading the tale of Shan 
and what they saw to everywhere they went. And such was the way 
the story was told, from one generation to the next, as a 
reminder, even though the official Annals never admitted or 
recorded it, for as much as it mattered, it should never have 
happened in the eyes of the Gods, and so it never had.

And such was the tale of Shan Lagus, the Betrayer, proscribed 
from history, but alive in the memory of Law-fearing people, 
people like the Archminister LaVasse, a wide, big-boned man, 
dressed in an opulent surplice, holy texts in High Helican weaved 
around the sleeves, a Seal of Office hanging round his neck in a 
pendant made of platinum and emeralds, fittingly pure and clean 
to represent the qualities of the Archminister.

He was presently at the Strategium Proper, in the company of the 
General of the Army, and the Procastinator Militant, whose 
embarassing near-blunder at last night's festivities at the 
announcement of the Last Holy Campaign as it was officially now 
named, had not gone unnoticed, and had become the subject of 
sarcastic comments and irony even at lower echelons of Ministry 
and Army, but had only naturally been ignored by the 
Procastinators as a whole.

The General of the Army had not been present at the event due to 
having received news of the Castigator's decision from 
beforehand, and had indeed spent the night hard at work putting 
his most trusted and capable people together, rousing them up 
from their sleep in order to lay down the priorities of planning 
and start orchestrating the massive preparations involved in such 
an endeavour as a Holy Campaign. 

He had of course learned of the Procastinator's Militant blunder, 
and even though second hand accounts rarely manage to do justice, 
he had exchanged knowing looks and smiles with the Archminister 
that had gone largely unnoticed by the Procastinator Militant, a 
somewhat alarming fact if one would care to extrapolate the level 
of the Procastinators' vigilance from the qualities apparent in 
its most senior member.

The three of them had been there from before dawn, the 
Archminister and Procastinator Militant arriving together though 
having rode in separate coaches, having left from the 
Disciplinarium once proper etiquette was adhered to and the 
reenactment of the Pacification of Zaelin thoroughly reenacted, 
with bloodletting and prayer ensuing.

They were now sipping fresh hot uwe tea, comfortably seated at 
the General's planning chamber, all sorts of charts and maps laid 
out over a grand table, heaps reports and still unsgined orders 
heaped upon the General's desk, a utilitarian piece of furniture, 
like most around the chamber, sturdy and well-made but otherwise 
unadorned and plain. 

The Archminister was seated on the only luxurious chair 
available, plush velvet adorning the back and the sitting 
surface, elegantly inlaid pieces of ivory, black granite and 
tetherwood intertwined in flowing designs in the stylish 
armrests. The Procastinator Militant sat at a simple stool, much 
more accomodating for a soldier in search of a few moments of 
resting one's legs during brief pauses in a battle, rather than a 
man of such a high office as a Procastinator Militant. 

The General had briefly apologized to the Procastinator Militant 
for lack of a better seating apparatus, and explained that any 
and all equipment deemed to be of an extraneous nature was being 
dismantled to be put into other uses now that the preparations 
for the campaign demanded every last bit of usable material. And 
that even included artisan chairs made of young sycamore and 
inlaid with ivory, granite, and tetherwood, not unlike the last 
one available for seating persons of importance, of which the 
Archminister seemed to make such good use.

Not that he implied at any point, the General continued, that the 
Procastinator Militant was not a person of incalculable 
importance, but alas, the Archminister had seniority according to 
the Law of Founding, so it was Law that essentially demanded that 
the Archminister be seated in the proper way, while he would have 
to make do with what little was available at such a time.

At that, the Procastinator Militant withdrew from any thought or 
intention of protesting, and simply accepted the proferred stool 
graciously. By looking at the Archminister, if one didn't know 
better he might misinterpret his slight grin as an indication of 
silent enjoyment of the unfortunate predestinations of the 
Procastinator on his behalf, but such a man was beyond such base 
thoughts, and was merely grinning at the studious labor going on 
around the Strategium Proper, praising the high spirits of 
everyone involved, and personally congratulating the General of 
the Army for kicking off the preparations in the way expected:

“Well done, Tyrpledge. I see that you are already thinking of 
using all available material. Even using the ivory and granite in 
such a fine chair. Hard to find materials, very important, are 
they not?”, the Archminister inquired, his nose delicately poised 
over his cup of uwe, letting the aromas seep in of their own 
volition.

“I am more than honoured, indeed blessed, to hear such praise 
from your Excellence. Yes, they are most valuable, as well as 
tetherwood and the sycamore. From what I know of the artisan's 
techniques, the ivory is used in delicate steamer parts without 
which the damnable things would blow up before going ten feet. 
The sycamore and tetherwood are used in constructing siege 
engines, and the granite is turned into pellets for the steamers' 
slingshots.”, General Tyrpledge answered, with a hint of a smile 
and his eyes darting back forth between Gomermont, the 
Procastinator Militant, and La Vasse, to whom he added as an 
afterthought:

“Is the uwe to your liking? I can always call up the cook to 
present himself and receive proper chastisement if he has failed 
you. He was specifically instructed on the required quality of 
the uwe and your precise likings. It would be an affront to the 
Council if he could not serve properly.”

“There will be no need, General. Please, call me La Vasse. We 
rarely meet on official business as it is with you spending most 
of the time on exercises away from Pyr, and me always busy at the 
Ministry and the Disciplinarium. I believe that in such an 
important time, we should dispense with tiring mannerisms of 
protocol and etiquette, and get on with the business in hand, to 
better serve Law and the glory of the Pantheon, of course.”, the 
Archminister's tone polite, level, straightforward, as if the 
General was his peer, which was strictly speaking, false.

Tyrpledge was visibly but also pleasantly surprised, his look 
widened and his face brightened up a tone. Gomermont seemed to 
fidget uncomfortably at his stool, unable to arrange his body in 
a manner both sufficient and comely of a Procastinator Militant.

La Vasse and Tyrpledge largely ignored Gomermont's discomfort and 
Tyrpledge replied in kind to the Archminister:

“I am more than grateful for that dispensation then, La Vasse. It 
does help a great deal when going to war when you don't have to 
devote precious time on finding the right chair, serving the 
proper tea and using the protocol-bound appelations of rank and 
office.”, the General said while easing up on his chair, his body 
assuming a relaxed position.

“Oh, make no mistake Tyrpledge, my rank, office, and related 
trappings of my status as Archminister still hold and I expect 
you to diligently administer the proper respect. At least in 
public, when we are not planning together, exchanging information 
and agreeing to our next best course of action. Be reminded of 
course, that the Castigator is always briefed on our meetings and 
though we have been given executive control of the Holy Campaign, 
whatever course of action we decide on, has to be ratified by His 
Piousness. In grave matters of battle that is, since currently I 
have been empowered with freedom to act as the Castigator's proxy 
in these preliminary stages of the preparation.”

La Vasse's voice assumed a harsher tone, the weight in his voice 
and words punctuating his heightened status of authority. His 
strict but fair tone was indicative of his intentions: He would 
be reasonably cooperative and would dispense of the pleasantries 
and honours where applicable, but that would not bring Tyrpledge 
up to the same level as him, the proxy of the Castigator. 

He also seemed to limit this dispensation to Tyrpledge alone, 
since Gomermont apart from being a relatively useless dolt, the 
most common type of Procastinator, his office also was not 
immediately pertinent to the Campaign, since he and his men would 
remain in the cities and towns, ever watchful of signs of 
insurrection and heresy when the Castigator and much of the 
governing mechanism would be in the Widelands.

Tyrpledge was simply a soldier, a sword to be wielded like a 
tool, bending to the master's will. He had never had any 
misconceptions of his status, and the Archminister's words 
carried no different message: he would still be following orders 
diligently and respectfully, he just didn't have to stand at 
attention the whole time.

Once La Vasse's words settled in, Tyrpledge said in a simple, 
straightforward manner and a genuine voice of calm acceptance:

“I understand perfectly, Archminister.”

Gorgemont was standing up, having given up on the stool, and he 
was languidly peering over the milling mass of soldiers, artisans 
and labourers outside at the huge staging fields, sipping on a 
freshly poured cup of uwe. He asked noone in particular, in a 
rather rude manner without turning to face either one of the men 
he was supposed to be working closely with:

“These are the Army's infamous steamers then? They do seem clumsy 
and unwieldly. They lack that polish I thought the Army insists 
on fervently. And how do you fit the horses inside that? How do 
they breathe, is it through those pipes? I'm quite curious.”

General Tyrpledge rolled his eyes in an almost shocking 
expression of unadulterated disesteem towards Gomermont. The 
Archminister was smiling, sipping almost indifferently at his uwe 
when the General sighed and replied in as much seriousness as he 
could muster:

“The are called steamers, because they use steam, which is very 
hot water. They do not use horses. They are not polished because 
if they were, they would give away their position hours away 
before reaching their intended targets. The pipes are part of the 
system of steamworks.”

Gomermont was adamant as he was ignorant:

“Ah, I see. Still, clumsy pieces of machine. I'll never 
understand why you insist on using them.”

“I can accept that in good grace, Procastinator Militant.”, said 
Tyrpledge and left the dead-end exchange of words at that. 
Tyrpledge resumed his thoughts even as Gomermont took in more of 
the vast work, construction, and camp area. At length, the 
General asked the Archminister:

“La Vasse, I need to know. You are closer to the Castigator, his 
proxy, probably the only reliable person I can talk with 
meaningfully. The Widelands are wild lands, there are no people 
living there. Sane people, at least. No cities, or towns, or 
anything to capture, and maintain. With no population to 
enlighten, no forces arrayed against us, what objectives should I 
designate? What provisions will I require? What manner of 
equipment, what disposition of forces? How will our forces move? 
What, exactly, will we be attacking, Archminister?”

Tyrpledge's tone showed some anxiety, some words bursting forth 
rapidly behind others. He was not scared, La Vasse could see 
that. He simply needed a target to focus on.

“I am much at a loss as you are, General. I have had little 
foreword of the Castigator's decision, and though privy to most 
of his thoughts and discussions, I have to say that the Patriarch 
is better informed than I am. All I can tell you is that you 
should commit the totality of our armies, for a reconnaisance in 
force.”

Tyrpledge frowned in disbelief before asking to make sure, 
surprise more than evident:

“The totality of our forces? In two weeks?”

“I have not been known to impart His Piousness' words 
imperfectly. The sum of the armies, Tyrpledge, in two weeks.”

“But.. There is no precedent of such a mobilisation.. The 
artisans and laborers at my disposal cannot cope with such a 
workload even if I drive them to death thrice over! It is not a 
matter of ability, it is simply a ..”

The general's protests were politely interrupted by the 
Archminister waving a dismissive hand and saying as he reached 
for another cup of uwe:

“The Army has been granted special dispension to use any and all 
capable men and resources that can be found across the land, for 
the period of time up to and including the Holy Campaign, with 
the blessings of the Ministry and the cooperation of the 
Procastinators.”

Tyrpledge was stunned in silence and was instantly awed at the 
power put forth by the Castigator, effectively forcing everyone 
to serve as labour and offer his belongings for the express 
purposes of this Last Holy Campaign. Truly momentous times they 
were living in, he thought. And then started mentally calculating 
the manpower he would need to use to have everything ready in 
time, when the Archminister commented on his tea:

“Fine uwe, Tyrpledge. You have a fine cook. If the rest of the 
army proves as capable and willing, the Pantheon will smile upon 
us.”

To which the Procastinator Militant added morosely:

“I prefer keplis to uwe, really. It upsets my stomach.”




  The longest errand

The previous night's walk had exhausted him. He had laid down to 
sleep right after dawn, his feet sore, his legs leaden with the 
weight of all the distance traveled so far. It was indeed a long 
ride from the northern lands, from Nicodemea south through the 
great farmlands of Rubnis. Then crossing the river Shielwa, and 
onto the western rough country of Ilonas, the shepherd country, 
more animal, hill and rock than man. 

This was where the marble road leading into the Widelands begun. 
This was where his quest had taken him so far. For weeks he had 
been on the road, suffering fools too gladly sometimes, 
subjecting his body into such a trial of strength of will and 
body as travelling on foot for almost what seemed to be half 
around the world. Indeed a feat in itself, it was simply the 
means to far greater a prize, the complete knowledge of which 
still eluded him, despite all the years of studies and inquiries, 
both his and his masters'.

The marble road started off as a narrow, thin road, small edges 
of pure white marble-like material delineating its boundaries. It 
was not really made from marble, for if it was it would have been 
demolished and chipped away bit by bit long ago. But it seems to 
defy any tool and machination of man, neither pickaxe nor chisel 
capable of even slightly damaging the road. 

A sleek, shiny white-grey road, cold to the touch but fine and 
delicate, like glasswork. But unbreakable, unyielding, unscathed 
by time, man, or nature. A foreign body so exquisitely crafted 
that it is indeed unique, and no artisans at any time, and no 
empire that ever rose and fell ever managed to construct such a 
piece of perfection, truly as some poet once said “for the Gods 
to walk upon the lands”.

It was, and had always been, part of the lands, but alien to them 
as well. The people had always known of the marble road, just as 
they knew of the trees, the mountains and the rivers, the forests 
and the glenns, the fields and the wheat, the goat and the cow, 
the suns and the moon. But these things were of nature, and the 
marble road clearly was not, for nature abhors uniqueness. 
Animals come in pairs, rivers abound, so do trees. But there is 
only one marble road. A perfect thing; a left over from the time 
Gods walked among us. Or even so, before us.

What reason was there behind it? Why does it lead into the 
Widelands? What is it made of? And who made it? With what tools, 
what materials did they use? They, because this must surely be 
the work of thousands. No single man could ever accomplish such a 
work in his lifetime. Perhaps, most rightly so, it is the work of 
the Gods. And to try and unravel their reasoning and purpose can 
only lead to madness, heresy, or both. 

Molo decided to leave such thoughts aside, thoughts which beget 
questions that begged for answers he could not find. At least not 
before he ventured into the Widelands proper, until he found what 
Umberth described as the Necropolis, where inestimable knowledge 
was waiting to be uncovered to the world. Knowledge of a time 
unknown, perhaps before man ever walked the lands. The Time of 
the Gods.

It was already a fascinating sensation, walking upon the very 
same road that even the Gods might have walked upon once. What 
other man, apart from him and Umberth had dared walk the marble 
road unto its terribly unknown end? What other man, who lived 
long enough to tell the tale? What other man, who was not hunted 
down as a heretic, a blasphemer? What other man who didn't have a 
tragic, miserable end? 

He grinned wickedly at these thoughts, for they were immediately 
followed by his aspirationg: He wouldn't perish neither in the 
Widelands, nor at the hands of a fanatical mob, or the ever 
watchful Procastinators. He would not succumb to any torture the 
Ministers might want to put him through for when all his trials 
and tribulation had come to pass this, he would not be simply a 
man anymore. He would not be hunted down, or exiled, or even held 
at bay, as a feared and terrible man.

No, when all the power and majesty and magnificence of the Gods 
was unveiled and made manifest through him, he would be 
transformed into a being of awe and power that the lands had not 
witnessed since the beginning of time. He would become a living 
deity, an avatar of the Gods, and he would be loved, and 
cherished, and worshipped as a God among men should. 

He knew the truth of it, he could feel it in his heart and bones, 
see it in his twisting dreams. Dreams of cleansing light and 
fire, himself a creature of wrath and glory, terrible power at 
his hands and unimaginable purpose in his mind. The purpose of 
the Gods. Indeed it was their divine plan. Conceived and hatched 
untold aeons ago, and he was their chosen instrument. He would 
not fail them. For the lust of that power burned deep withing, 
deeper than the need for breath itself.

But he had indeed to find the Necropolis first, and that task 
seemed ever so slightly more difficult with each passing day. 
Last night he had found the marble road, and eagerly walked under 
the stars for a long stretch of time, without pause. He had seen 
the trees give way to bush, the grass wither, the sounds of 
animals grow weaker, fainter, fewer. He knew he was entering the 
Widelands, the signs visible around him. It had been the same 
with Umberth, as he had recorded.

When he laid down to sleep near the marble road, under a skinny 
old withered bark of a tree, a cluster of rocks sheltering him 
from the winds, he put his cloak under his head as a pillow, and 
drew his blanket high enough to cover his face from the rising 
suns, and slept lightly, with a smile on his face, as if he was 
merely a content child. 

When he woke up in the afternoon, the suns still high, he was 
more than surprised to see that the road was not there. In fact, 
the road was nowhere in sight, as if he had dreamt of how he got 
where he was, or as if it was all in his mind which was starting 
to fade away into chaos, and madness. 

Molo was sure he had been traveling in the correct direction. 
More than sure, he felt certain it was the right direction from 
the beginning. He had studied the maps his master had crafted 
painstakingly, with reverent attention to detail many times over, 
and he was certain he had correctly identified some, if not all 
of the landmarks mentioned in Umberth's tale. 

So he was sure that when he stepped on the glistening white road, 
hard and unyielding, though soft to the touch, almost like metal 
but more like porcelain or clay, he was indeed walking on the 
marble road. And that when he got off the marble road in search 
of a place to sleep awhile and rest before following it once 
more, it would still be there, an undisturbed reality, a known 
quantity, a fact. By the Gods, it was a road! Not a river to 
overflow, or dry up, or change its course! And even rivers have 
been known to take their time in such happenstance! How can 
something like the marble road disappear in a matter of hours?

Perhaps he was indeed losing his mind. Perhaps Umberth was a 
crazed old fool, and his esquire doubly so. And it had all been a 
fantasy to stir the minds most weak, those who were most prone to 
fall for grand visions, tales of mystery and untold secrets. And 
he had followed that fantasy in vain, like a fool the sort of 
which he despised and felt little less than pity for. He was a 
fool, half-mad and soon quite lost, left to fend for his life in 
this hostile land, with nothing of worth or substance to live off 
it. Such an unfitting end to a journey that should have changed 
the world.

Black despair seemed to take over him, his head swimming in a sea 
of moroseness, thoughts of ruin and death his mind's sole 
occupation. He was tense with bad temper. His fists were 
clenched, banging against a rock once every so often, as if it 
alone was to blame for his meandering path up to this 
foolishness. His despair turned into rage, overwrought since he 
was with anger at his failure. He retraced his thoughts and 
conversed silently with himself. 

Would he accept an ignominious defeat at the hands of fate? Would 
he blindly give in to the temptation of despair? Throaw away the 
years of studies and preparation? His long walk, his 
peregrination to the Land of the God unfinished, nothing but an 
exercise in futility? And to what purpose would he devote himself 
now? What other singular task can match his ambition, his dreams 
beyond the realm of mortal men?

And what if he was indeed a madman? What of it? Madmen answer to 
noone, only to the Gods. And so would he answer. The Land of the 
Gods beckoned. They tested his mettle. Only the one who is mad 
enough to challenge such authority can truly knock on the Holy 
Gates. He was all alone out here, in the Widelands. The marble 
road disappearing, was just the start. The beginning of the play 
the Gods seemed to love so much.

He would play. He would play in anything they chose to throw at 
him. He would find the Necropolis, at any cost. This, was merely 
an inconvenience, one of many he should still encounter. For once 
he set out, he knew he would be attempting a feat that almost 
noone had succeeded at before. And even if he did, as Umberth 
might have had, nothing was certain of the power therein, and how 
it would finally become his own.

He would have to see for his own, marble road or not. He got up 
decisively, and walked back to where he remembered the road lay 
exactly. He was standing either right on a spot where there was a 
road to be seen last night, or only a few feet away, he was 
certain. The grass had a wholesome quality, as if it had always 
covered the same ground as it did now, as if there never was a 
marble road here, not ever.

Then it was an illusion. A mirage. The only logical explanation 
he could arrive to with what little he knew of the marble road, 
and ignoring the possibility of him being mentally unstable, 
which was not helpful if at all true, this was the only 
reasonable explanation. The marble road was a lie, and by some 
sort of means unknown to man certainly, it was there to be seen, 
only to lure those that were mentally unprepared and easily 
misled and fooled deeper into the Widelands. A fly trap of sorts, 
he gathered. Well, that would be of little significance now that 
he had uncovered that the marble road was in fact not there at 
all.

His thought took him to a passage from Umberth's tale, which made 
more sense now that he had seen this happen with his very own 
eyes. The passage read:

“Only a few nights after we had gone definetely in Wideland 
country, we lost track of the road. Deciding to camp quite a 
distance away from the road, towards what had seemed to be a 
natural spring in a rock formation, we had lost sight of the 
marble road. We were doubly misled, since the spring had dried 
and was no more. The maps had failed us early on. Terlet went mad 
and master Umberth ordered me to put him out of his misery. Nubir 
and Vamden probably got lost trying to find the road, or simply 
decided to vanish before we went deeper into the Widelands. In 
any case, we never saw or heard of them again.”

Molo had thought that they had indeed lost teir bearings in the 
difficult to navigate terrain of the Widelands. That was why he 
didn't stray out of sight of the road. But it seemed that had 
little effect. The road had vanished seemingly of its own 
volition, or by forces and plans he could not understand and 
certainly not control. At least for now. 

He decided to continue on the same direction he had taken as 
before, when the road was still visible. The exact location of 
the Necropolis was a mystery, but he had arrived at the 
conclusion that it lay far enough deep into the Widelands, into 
the Dunes of the Widelands, the desert proper.

So he would grind along purposefully with the same eastward 
direction, deeper and deeper into the Widelands. He would try and 
record the distances traveled, counting his steps, in order to 
both focus his mind, as well as keep an account of how far deep 
each day of travel takes him. There will be time to recollect, 
muse, and decide on every next step when he stops to rest and 
take sustenance and water, two things that will indeed be scarce.

He still had a ready supply of honey-laden bars of nuts and 
sesami, a confection highly energetic, most appropriate for 
travelling long distances and generally when consuming one's 
energy. His water sack was still full from yesterday, but he 
should definetely try and keep its usage at a minimum. 

The more the Widelands turned into a desert, the more imperative 
it came for him to conserve his water. That is why he had chosenn 
to travel at night, both to use its cover if anyone had been 
following him, and certainly because it was cooler at night, the 
walk not as demanding in both food or water.

But he still should be able to find some water until he went deep 
in the Dunes. There, he doubted any water could be found at all 
for days on end. And that was where he would either perish or 
triumph. Deep in the desert dunes of the Widelands, searching for 
the Necropolis.

As was his preferred way, what he thought was the most sensible 
one, he waited for dusk to come and the suns to come down the 
sky, before he would start walking again. He picked up his 
knapsack with what little more he carried within, picked up his 
walking stick and started off once more, feeling he had one a 
small battle today, renewed vigor and determination coursing 
through him. He needed no road to find his path, he would instead 
tread on relentlessly, and his path and journey would be sung in 
the aeons to come.

He kept a count of his steps in his head, and focused his eyes on 
a specific star to follow, trying not to lose track of either his 
footsteps or his direction. And as he trod on, the star firmly 
fixed in his gaze, he thought he saw a great silver-white line 
appear in front of him, like someone had let open open a small 
slit of glittering light amidst the rocky desert night. He 
blinked, thinking he had not rested long enough, that the whole 
incident with the road was taxing his mind.

And then he had this rush of exhilaration and hope, and started 
running towards the thin sliver of white in the dark. He ran as 
if his life depended on it, forgetting everything about counting 
steps or going in a straight line. He just ran ahead towards the 
straight white line that seemed to fill the horizon and was 
coming ever so closer to him.

And when the line had grown past a line into something 
recognisable indeed familiar, his aching feet and burning lungs 
meant nothing at all, for he was once again stepping on the 
marble road. He threw his head back and let his body drop on the 
road, laughing like a child who had found a toy he had thought 
lost.

Per Ardua

Wishes of the Unholy

“A soldier is offered two ways to serve the Gods, the Council, 
and the people. That is, he can either be dead or alive, but he 
will still serve. A soldier might choose either, but one of the 
two has proved extremely popular, and for good reason. As a 
soldier myself, with as much experience as any can hope to amass 
over the years, I can only share with you a rough guideline on 
how to live long enough to write your own manual: Avoid the 
meaningless battles, especially politics.”

-General Ret. Normo Mimmot, Didagmata

  Circumstance and happenstance

“He hasn't spoken a word, your Reverence. He could be a mute for 
all we know.”, the man with the bloodied iron scraper said to the 
Inquisitor. Bits of raw flesh were still hanging off the tool of 
torture, the man shackled to the wall limp, probably passed out. 

The Patriarch stood still, his attention drawn to a few pieces of 
clothing and some belongings, sitting on a shabby old table, 
jutting splinters and worn-away cuts all over its rough surface. 
He picked at some of the clothing with the edge of his 
patriarchical Rod, the sigils and High Helican scripts etched on 
its golden knobbed top barely visible in the dim torchlight of 
the torture chamber.

He sniffed the air around the ragged, bloodied clothing, and a 
grimace of distaste and scorn appeared on his otherwise solid, 
expressionless face. Some would say he sometimes looked as if he 
was wearing a mask, rather than a real, human face. And then 
there were tales of him sitting idly in the dark without ever 
sleeping, or that he never called for food or drink. Fewer still 
feared he might not be a man. It was indeed wondrous what the 
human mind could attribute to persons of unimaginable power. It 
made the Patriarch laugh sometimes.

None were brave or stupid enough though to point out such 
troubled thoughts in the presence of his Holyness. Others, were 
too eager to circulate such rumors as well as the names of those 
who commented on such impertinent views of the Holy Avatar the 
Patriarch.

All these kinds of curious, imaginative and irrespectful people 
who could not impose self-discipline and mind their own business 
ended up in deep rivers, forever reaching for breath, or in 
shallow graves, their bones exposed for wild dogs to chew on. 
Some simply vanished, neither body nor bone left behind, not even 
as a gruesome reminder.

The Patriarch smiled at the thought of people being capable of 
voicing such audacity and felt almost impressed. Naturally, such 
phenomena had subsided considerably after it became a well-known 
fact that people with much to talk about can be heard the most, 
and when people talk, the Patriarch listens. Still, from time to 
time people tend to forget what has passed, but they are on 
occasion grimly reminded not to speak of the Holy Avatar in 
anything less than reverent hymns to his Holyness, divine origin 
and purpose. 

The Chief Inquisitor stood still a few steps next to the 
Patriarch, his head bowed, his gaze averted from the Holy 
Avatar's face, a sign of reverent servitude and deference. Which 
was in fact, nothing less than adhering to protocol. Before 
speaking, the Inquisitor cleared his throat and licked his lips 
momentarily, his forehead glistening slightly with perspiration. 
He stood in a bowed position, his hands knitted together, hidden 
inside the sleeves of his surplice:

“Your Holyness.”

The Patriarch was still examining the small pile of clothes and 
the contents of a leather pouch and a small sack that were found 
on this man. He seemed detached from his surroundings, seemingly 
deeply engrossed in a detailed cataloguing of what the prisoner 
was carrying on his person, as if searching for somthing his 
servants and people might have missed, something important that 
he had to make sure of himself.

There followed a brief period of silence, with only the 
sputtering flames of the torches and the hollow sound of drops of 
water on damp stones accentuating it, a faint echo filling the 
otherwise almost empty chamber.

At length, the Patriarch spoke, addressing the Inquisitor without 
turning his head or gaze, his examination of the prisoner's 
belongings uninterrupted and now seemingly even more thorough:

“Hmm? Speak your mind Inquisitor.”, his voice commanding, but 
calm, almost unassuming.

The Inquisitor then bowed deeper, stiffness in his voice, the 
words coming out of him with difficulty, almost pain:

“The prisoner, your Holyness.. He has not given up any 
information yet, sir. The procastinators found him where you 
indicated he would be, but there was no sign of his accomplices, 
your Reverence. His name is Philo Dutur. These are his belongings 
you are examining, sir.”

The Patriarch cast a gaze of subdued anger at the Inquisitor, his 
otherwise serene face causing a disturbing, fearful sensation. 
The effect was rather unsettling, and the Inquisitor bowed deeper 
still as a physical reaction to the Patriarch's menacing look. It 
was evident he felt real fear overtaking him. 

The Patriarch took notice and felt pleased. Fear was most useful. 
He paused his examination of the items on the table, and turned 
to face the Inquisitor, offering him his complete focus and 
attention:

“You should be careful not to recite the obvious, Chief 
Inquisitor. One might mistake you for a blabbering fool of little 
use beyond shoveling dung in the heatpipes. Or even for commiting 
blasphemy, taking me for a fool. That would be most unpleasant. I 
would have to choose a new Chief Inquisitor and the 
technicalities of such an affair, though I sometimes find 
pleasant, tend to bore me. Not to mention there are ongoing 
issues and little precious time, so please, Chief Inquisitor, 
spare me and tell me something useful.”

The Patriarch seemed calm and restrained, but his last phrase was 
uttered with such venom and malice, that his melodic voice 
suddenly took on a sickeningly sweet quality, as if his last few 
words were dripping with thick, clotted blood. 

The Chief Inquisitor, who had witnessed and performed countless 
acts of relentless, inhuman torture, was apparently terrified at 
the prospect of the incurring the Patriarch's wrath, and 
physically recoiled, taking a step back, before kneeling to the 
wet, hard stonefloor and begging in all fours:

“I beg your forgiveness, most revered and wise of All, the Holy 
Avatar of the Gods. I had nothing more to offer you your 
Holyness. I spoke out of nervousness and felt ashamed for my 
failure. I have faith you know it in your heart to be true. Shall 
I ever once again even imply blasphemy or sin, strike me down 
with all your might, but not because of a slip of the tongue, 
Luminous One.”

The Patriarch could see the man was visibly trembling. Another 
weak minded fool. He would have to dispense of him sooner rather 
than later, but not immediately. Other matters would have to take 
precedence. These traitors, more aptly sinners, pronouncing 
themselves rebels. The Kinsfolk. Delusional fanatics, sprouts of 
a seed long thought extinct. The dire remnants of a long lost 
cause.

He should have personally eradicated the lot of them, a long time 
before they developed the propensity to spread their mewling 
half-truths, insidious propaganda and riotous myths to the 
weak-minded and always eager to be deceived masses. 

He had knowledge of even certain noble Houses to be either 
sympathetic or actively participating. Remis would have to be 
made acquiescent in this matter and forcefully removed if needed. 

He thought that he should have known better, he should have seen 
it would come to this before long. But there were niceties to be 
observed, rules to be followed before they were bent and finally 
broken.

His hands were finally, figuratively speaking of course, loose. 
He would break down their spine, their will, their determination. 
He had the means to accomplish that, and with some careful steps 
it would all seem so natural, so typical of failed revolutions, 
blood-soaked affairs of chasing wild dreams that turn into ashes 
when the night is through.

His part would be small, the stage would be filled with other 
characters, some willing and some not very so. But he would 
conduct the opening and closing lines of the chorus, and they 
would all dance to his tune. It would be a performance truly fit 
for Gods, if only for a limited audience. Nevertheless, he felt 
he would genuinely enjoy crushing these fools utterly, they would 
offer a fitting diversion indeed.

He had been absorbed in these thoughts for a rather discomforting 
period of time, the Inquisitor hanging by his ever word, or their 
absence. None dared break the forced, uneasy silence or his 
concentration. The prisoner stirred, awaking from a merciful 
sleep. 

His moans drew the flogger's attention, who immediately reached 
for a barbed whip from a motley of tools and instruments, some 
specific in their use, and others much more common items put to 
such a use with surprising ingenuity.

As he drew far back to have more room to lash out to the chained 
man, a shout from accross the chamber halted him, whip almost in 
mid-air:

“Stay your hand!”, the Patriarch's voice deafeningly booming, 
matching and perhaps surpassing the authority he was imparted 
with, however impossible that would be. The torture chamber 
reverberated with his voice for mere moments, the flames of the 
torches quivering in response, as if the air had been momentarily 
sucked out of the room.

The flogger set down his instrument of torture, bowed reverently 
but as fast as it would seem prudent, and then stepped back from 
the chained form of Philo, standing still, his gaze nowhere near 
the direction of the Patriarch.

The Inquisitor managed a slightly expectant look towards the 
Patriarch, awaiting for the a casual flick of the Rod that would 
sentence him to excruciating torture at the hands of the 
Patriarch himself, far more delicate and much more painful 
agonising unseen methods of torment at his disposal.

No such move was made. Tha Patriarch instead motioned with his 
left hand, the unadorned one, the Mourning hand, for the 
Inquisitor to rise, before adding:

“You are a pathetic fool, Inquisitor. Stop groveling. I never 
suffer fools gladly, but by necessity I shall. Serve your purpose 
and you might be able to redeem yourself and avoid my personal 
chamber of torture. You might even be able to save your 
insignificant little life you seem to value so much. I might feel 
less inclined to throw you to the boars, if you actually provide 
me with names.”

The Inquisitor, a middle aged man, lean, with an austere face, 
would normally look menacing and unyielding to a common townfolk, 
with his robes and sigil of office and rank, someone important 
and powerful, someone to be feared and respected. 

He now seemed instead, a hollow, reduced man: his surplice 
spoiled and mudded, his face contorted with imagined agony in the 
hands of the Patriarch, and his feet barely able to support his 
weight, slight tremors coursing through his body. He simply 
managed to croak:

“As is your bidding, your Holyness. But we need more time with 
the prisoner. He has proved, quite resilient.”

The Patriarch was studying the prisoner intently with a frowned 
face, as if trying to uncover everything he needed to know merely 
by watching hard enough. His right hand, the one adorned with 
Holy Diademata, was scratching his chin in a rather detached, 
insouciant way, starkly in contrast with his earlier searing 
demeanor. He addressed the Inquisitor without turning around or 
even slightly moving his head, his voice carrying hints of 
aggravation:

“What you need, Inquisitor, are lessons in silence. You would 
have killed him without getting a word out of him. I will break 
him myself. Your crude methods can only serve as instruments of 
death, no more. Leave the chamber now, both of you.”

The Patriarch's voice carried a finality that could not be 
challenged. The flogger did not even bother picking up his tools, 
bowing once more hastily but affording proper reverence and then 
quickly heading towards the badly lit staircase that led to the 
upper levels of the tunnels.

The Inquisitor had no intention of uttering a single sentence 
that could very well be his last, and with series of deep bows 
and small steps, made hiw way to the staircase as well, being 
very cautious not to turn his back to the Patriarch at any one 
point. The minute he reached the base of the stairs and as he was 
ready to turn and hurriedly run them up, the Patriarch raised his 
left hand and with gaze still locked on Philo, asked the 
Inquisitor:

“The men you sent after the sinners, deep into the tunnels, did 
you take care of them as instructed?”, his tone sharp like clear 
ice.

The Inquisitor stood at the base of the stairs, one foot already 
on their steps, then bowing low he replied in a somewhat 
controlled voice, rather than his earlier mewling tone:

“They were blinded with hot iron, their tongues were cut out, 
their arms were chopped off and their teeth smashed to the last. 
As per your instructions, your Holiness.”

“I see. There are tasks even you can accomplish then. Let it be 
known that these men were chastised for they witnessed one of the 
Holy Grounds with their unclean eyes, touching its walls with 
their bare filthy hands, soiling Holy Ground with their impure 
voices. Parade them through the City. Let the people see what 
happens to sinners and blasphemers.”

The Inquisitor answered meekly after a small pause:

“Thy will be done, your Holiness”.

“Of course it will be done. And no interruptions Inquisitor, not 
even for the Castigator himself. If he threatens you with death, 
remember that I will be less merciful.”

The Patriarch's last words struck true with the Inquisitor who 
managed to simply nod and rushed up the stairs as if swaths of 
fire were behind him. A dull metal thud echoed, the large door to 
this chamber closing right behind the Inquisitor, who walked 
closer to Philo, still alive and awake, unable to look at him 
face to face. A grin that threatened to tear the Patriarch's face 
apart suddenly appeared on his face, his teeth revealed to be an 
immaculate pearly white.

“Alone, at last. Philo, was it then?”

His next steps took him closer to Philo, the Patriarch's boots 
barely making an audible impression on the stone floor. He 
noticed the pool of clotted blood lying under Philo, his back a 
horrible mess of deep gouges and bloody wounds. 

Rivulets of blood stained his whole body, from his shoulders down 
to his legs. His feet were bare and bruised livid, the skin so 
deeply stained crimson that it was almost impossible to know 
whether there was any of it left. Philo's thickset body had lost 
its healthy color, and seemed only a little less than feeble.

Philo did not answer verbally, neither did he nod. He simply spat 
vehemently, a thick mix of blood and saliva landing on the pool 
of his own blood, the little splash audible enough to register as 
an action defiance, or even possibly indifference.

“These amateurs who worked on you, were thorough, I'll give them 
that. But amateurs still. Bleeding a man to death can only 
achieve in killing someone. Not in confessing his sins. Will you 
do that, Philo? Will you confess?”

The Patriarch had leaned closer to Philo, he was standing on his 
right side, looking at him with bright enthusiasm, expectancy 
loitering timidly in his voice. The Patriarch wished dearly for 
an easy answer, a “yes” that would make things smooth and civil. 
A recognition of being outplayed, an acceptance of defeat, the 
knowledge of pointlessness proven in Philo's resignation from the 
fight before it could even really begin. Such a joy, the feeling 
of superiority.

But the Patriarch also knew Philo would not choose the easy way 
out. He was too proud, too ignorant and too stupid to do so, to 
spare himself further unreached before heights of pain, 
unbearable humiliation, and in the end, total destruction of his 
mind, body, and soul. 

He must have thought himself already a martyr for his cause, a 
proud shining beacon against the darkness. Someone for the others 
to follow as an example, an stoic fighter, a proud man that could 
not be brought low.

How embarassingly naive. He would leave his tongue and throat 
intact for as long as possible. Their own screams always became 
insufferable. He would drive him mad, when he was through with 
him. A mad, witless fool. Not a martyr, but a wretched sack of 
flesh. Nothing. He would obliterate him utterly in the most 
literal sense. Philo Dutur would be in all manners erased, as he 
had never even existed or indeed been born. 

Ah, the small mercies, the little joys of his life and work. That 
was what kept him interested, what made him tick. In the end, it 
would all have been worth it, just for these bright moments of 
uninhibited truth and feeling. 

When the cries blanketed all the senses, thoughts and feelings. 
When the reality of pain promoted a higher sense of self, when 
the men and women that received his attention were indeed 
enlightened, their forms pure and bright right before they ended, 
like the last light of dying suns.

It was, the Patriarch thought, an art form. He wished he could 
make Philo understand before he began, but that would be an 
effort in futility. Words would not affect him, his ears and mind 
were closed shut to him, that much was certain. It was of little 
consequence, because soon he would be so much more receptive, 
like a child only now beginning to learn, he would learn so much 
about him in so little time.

The Patriarch was filled with a fleeting sensation of jealousy, 
he though to himself how blessed indeed these people were, to be 
stripped down to their essential self, see for just once clearly 
what everything meant, the truth of life bared naked before their 
crying souls. 

He almost wished he could experience that first hand, but he had 
the knowledge ingrained. The pain and sensation were not worth as 
much as the revelation did. He felt almost violated, robbed of 
his right to discover, experience, learn anew. 

It was as if he was a mere tool, that should never amount to 
much. A useful but otherwise uninteresting tool. These people 
here, these were considered so much more intriguing, 
entertaining, mysteries worth uncovering.

An inner rage that had been left neglected for too long, flared 
up again. He could use that rage, he would make Philo really 
believe. Not just acquiesce, or give up his friends, his family 
or all that he loved and held dear. He would make him a true 
believer, a man happy to die in servitude at long last. The 
Patriarch told him, with a laugh and a grin:

“I'll make you believe, Philo. I'll save your soul. You'll see. 
Faith, Philo. Faith can work miracles.”

Philo concentrated his few remnants of strength and sniggered 
derisively before adding in a low but steady, unwavering voice:

“I spit on your faith. I will die a free man. You can cage me no 
more.”

And to accentuate his point, Philo did spit once more, reddish 
saliva coming out of his mouth, the broken teeth and wounds in 
his mouth still bleeding.

The Patriarch replied in a candid way, as if exchanging opinions 
with a peer:

“Oh you misunderstand, dear Philo. I was talking about faith in 
oneself. And I do have faith in myself, Philo. Here, I'll show 
you.”

And with that, the Patriarch reached for Philo's chains, a mere 
touch of his unlocking the first one, Philo's body swaying 
immediately to his other chained side. It was all very sudden, 
and Philo barely had time to put his feet down to be able to 
stand instead of slumping on the stone floor.

When the Patriarch unchained his remaining hand, Philo tried to 
act as fast as possible. His right, drooping side was nearer the 
Patriarch, so he mustered all the strength that he could and 
focused it on his elbow, suddenly jutting it towards the 
Patriarch's groin. 

As he did that, he was already clenching his left fist, trying to 
gather some momentum by twisting his torso and perhaps landing a 
good punch on the Patriarch. This was probably his last and only 
opportunity, so he thought he'd make it count and go for the kill 
as well, his thought focusing on the motley arsenal of torturing 
tools available.

His elbow did not connect with the Patriarch. Instead he felt a 
rush of air, as if a void was suddenly created were the Patriarch 
was standing. As his torso swooped around in its instinctive 
movement, his feet swiveled to accomodate the sudden move, and 
his left fist came rushing down only to meet thin air. His body 
was awkwardly positioned now, and precariously balanced, like the 
mock statue of a victor or an athlete, about to fall off his 
feet.

The Patriarch was not where he should have been, and was instead 
at Philo's left side now, like he had instantly sidestepped him 
with inhuman speed, reflexes and foresight. As Philo turned his 
bruised head around, one eye completely hidden behind swollen 
tissue, the other one almost damaged and bled beyond recognition, 
but still seemingly functional, he managed to ask the Patriarch, 
evidently surprised and dumbstruck:

“No one can move that quick.”

The Patriarch let out an almost hysterical laughter, his 
shoulders bobbing freely up and down, and then added, still 
snickering intermittently:

“And yet, I did! A wonder made manifest! Praise the Gods!”

And yet another snigger before he laid out his right hand, his 
adorned hand, the Hand of Tribulation, and grasped Philo from his 
forehead.

Philo went limp almost instantly, his big bulk sagging down onto 
the floor, legs sprawled awkwardly, arms simply resting against 
his body, barely touching the bloodied floor.

His face, or what was still left of it, tried to take on an 
expression of pain, flinch and contort. Instead, it slackened, 
his mouth opened up to reveal broken death, open sores and 
wounds. He started mewling incoherently, blood and saliva 
dribbling down his chin, incomprehensible words sputtered in 
blood.

The Patriarch smiled, his face lit up and seemed pleased that his 
work was beginning to take form now. He asked Philo in a sweet, 
inviting voice:

“Who else was with you in those caves Philo? Was it someone I 
know? Who were your friend, Philo?”

Philo seemed to twist his body a little, as if trying to escape 
an invisible grasp, and his head shook with involuntary tremors. 
The Patriarch tightened his hold, and his voice became a venomous 
hiss:

“Who was it? I'll pry it anyway from your dying mind you wretch, 
so tell me of your own volition! Unburden your soul! Who was it?”

Philo let out a deep moan, and his eyes tried to let tears flow, 
but it was nearly impossible. His eyes were almost swollen shut, 
tears welling up constantly, making his vision, if he had any 
left, a complete blur. His moaning became deeper, his body shaken 
by involuntary spasms.

The Patriarch screamed in hellish fury, the air around them 
cracking audibly, small arcs of blue lightning flickering between 
the Patriarch's ringed fingers:

“Who was it?Who entered the caves with you?”

Philo's skull was throbbing, enormous veins jutting out ready to 
burst and his flesh was beginning to turn red hot. His throat 
managed to let out a few audible words, while his head was still 
being tightly head, forming an odd angle with the rest of his 
body, as if about to snap off its place:

“Amonas..Ptolemy..Hilderich..the curator boy..Please..End it..”

The Patriarch grinned appreciatively, and then immediately 
grimaced, his face expressing mild disappointment, resentment 
accentuating his words:

“The seed of doubt still lives then. He had been hiding well 
enough, it seems. And this Hilderich fellow, a Curator's 
apprentice? How quaint! A schoolboy and a romantic!”

He let go of Philo, who instantly regained some sort of 
composure, though he was drained of his vitality to the point of 
death, his body barely alive, his every breath copious and 
painful. Breathing deeply, his voice now little more than a 
whisper, he said amidst weeps and moans of pain:

“End it..Kill me..You have your names now..”

To which the Patriarch replied with a brilliant smile adorning 
his face:

“But Philo.. I knew their names all along.. I just wanted to hear 
them from you.. Can you feel it? The stain of treason? It will go 
away before the end. Have faith, Philo. You know I do.”

The Patriarch grasped Philo's head once more. The screams filled 
the chamber, echoing through the stone surface. 

The guards above the torture chamber were used to the cries of 
the sinners. But not to whatever it was that they were hearing. 
They became uneasy. At length, one of them vomited.

When the other guards came to relieve them, the screams and 
voices could still be heard. And that went on, and on. All 
through the night.

When the Patriarch emerged from the door of the torture chamber, 
the guards posted were almost ashen in color, but still managed 
to stand to attention briskly enough. The Patriarch said to the 
first one he laid eyes on:

“You. Send for Ursempyre Remis to my personal chambers. And you, 
clear up what is left down there.”

Both saluted and bowed deeply before silently rushing to perform 
their assigned duties. The Patriarch walked down the long 
corridor that would bring him to the staircase leading to his 
chambers. He felt stiff from the effort, but satisfied.

He smiled to himself, before musing aloud:

“Oh, Philo. What a charming little soul you had.”




  By the horns of the bull

Hilderich had finally slept, his protestations about the lack of 
a moon and night sky silently put aside when the fatigue took 
over and the anxiety and nervousness subsided after their thirst 
had been quenched and a warm, tasty meal sat comfortably in their 
bellies. 

He was snoring heavily now, and though it would have normally 
been less than a pleasant sound, under the circumstances it was 
mildly comforting, as it let Amonas know that not everything was 
amiss, that some things were still normal, albeit frustrating and 
hard to deal with.

Such a thing was Hilderich snore. Amonas tried to picture a 
future lady D'Augnacy trying to go to sleep next to the man, but 
failed to end his train of thought in anything other than a grin 
or a hearty snigger. 

He nodded to himself as he thought that it was a good thing that 
Hilderich had slept after all that had happened to him, he 
definetely needed sleep more than himself. Not that he didn't 
wish for sleep to come, and bless him with a few precious hours 
of oblivion and rest.

It was a nagging feeling he knew, that rest would not come even 
in his sleep. Nightmares would haunt him, as long as he was away 
from Celia, as long as he couldn't know what would befall her 
should he fail to return, if he was stranded in this lush version 
of hell with Hilderich as his sole companion for the rest of 
their lives.

At least, before they turned on each other, went mad or took 
their own lives as their last meaningful action, sparing them a 
life of torture and sleepless, unending days.

Amonas was sitting cross-legged, outside the cover of the small 
makeshift shelter he had fashioned, where most of it was taken 
over by the sprawled figure of Hilderich, who seemed to be 
thankfully quite at ease sleeping on the ground, with nothing but 
his already muddied and stained cloak as a matress.

He, on the other hand, could not let himself surrender to sleep. 
It was not the lack of moon, or the invariably harsh conditions 
of continuous light, unbearable heat and sticky moisture, that 
prevented him from having some kind of much needed rest.

It was as was the case most of the time, his mind that could not 
be appeased, that could not be turned off as it should. The 
immediate necessities had taken their toll already. The search 
for water which he still didn't know if it was indeed drinkable, 
the food he hoped would not prove much of a problem now that they 
knew there was at least something edible to be found.

But it was not just the simple minded anxiety of surviving. It 
was this strange new environment, totally unlike anything he had 
experienced before. Certainly nothing he knew ever existed, even 
on the most faraway lands. 

And the suns were wrong too. This might not even be their own 
world. The thought had unconsciously been formed before, when 
they first saw that clear, harsh sky. But now it took form, 
voice, he could here the thought ringing loudly in his head. This 
might be another world.

The ultimate truth revealed in form and substance all over him. 
And he had noone to share it but Hilderich, who might even hold 
it yet as suspicious, implausible at best. Another world. But no 
animals to speak of, no people, however queer or similar, however 
friendly or hostile.

He suddenly felt terribly alone, as if indeed the thought of them 
being the sole two individuals on this other world was weighing 
him down, grinding him to the ground. Just the two of them, 
wandering like castaways on a strange and mysterious island where 
no ship would ever sail to. An uncharted land, its existence 
always hidden away, never to be revealed, their bones bleached 
and turned into lime for the wild growths to set roots in.

His gaze turned to the tiny flickers of the fire, a few coals 
still red hot, thin lines of smoke rising from the perpetually 
wet wood. He focused on the fire, marvelling at its simple 
avarice, consuming the wood steadily, unperturbed, without a care 
for the world at large. A force of nature. A universal truth, 
fire. It eats away as much as it can and then it perishes on its 
own accord, accepting its fate. 

How he longed for such simplicity in life. Away from all this, 
this world, the other world he knew as home. Away from the 
Castigator's tyranny and its false Gods. Away from poverty and 
the coming war and the misery that would ensue no matter who the 
victor was. How much he had wanted to get away from all that, 
with Celia by his side. And they could let the world burn for all 
he cared. Just like fire burns on wood.

He sniggered despite himself, thinking he was letting himself 
down somehow. Perhaps he had been too morose in his thoughts, 
their plight so far sinking his feeling even more than he had 
realised. It would do him no good, that he knew. No matter 
whether any of these thoughts hold to the truth in the end, they 
would do him no real good.

He knew that thinking too much and acting too little had brought 
everything to this point. A rule of tyranny, based on lies and 
deceit. People dying everyday of famine, or rotting away in 
eternally dark dungeons for stealing a loaf of bread, or having 
children without permission.

He shook his head. Permission was needed to create life. As if 
any God would need to consider the utility of the inevitable, the 
unimpeachable, the unstoppable force of life that permeated 
everything, from the worms in the ground to the stars themselves.

It was indeed a sad moment when a star fell; but someone had said 
that another one was born at the same time. He had no way of 
knowing that for sure, since who could count the innumerable 
stars or the grains of sand in a beach? But he knew it in his 
heart it would be true.

Life just keeps happening. Whether anyone permits it or not, it 
just doesn't care and blindly goes on whatever the cost. Even in 
this place. There might have encountered no animals so far, but 
the vegetation.. Astounding, lush, green. If it wasn't so damn 
hot and humid he could have felt like living here for ever. Him, 
Celia, and their children. The many more to come after his 
firstborn.

Would he ever live to see all that come true?

He sighed as he mentally chastised himself for thinking in such 
an almost saturnine way. He stood up, deciding to clear his mind, 
flush it clean of any thought. Any kind of action would do his 
spirits good. And since he couldn't rest or sleep, a mild 
activity that would not drain him of much energy, would be a 
welcome change in pace.

He would go for a walk, in a way exploring their immediate 
surroundings, perhaps even scouting ahead their path to the 
bull-horned structure, that huge fork of a structure.

Hilderich stirred in his sleep, and mumbled something inaudible, 
licking his lips and smiling lightly. He must be dreaming, Amonas 
thought.

The fact that Hilderich could sleep as if nothing of import had 
transpired over the past few days, brought a smile of hope to 
Amonas' lips. Perhaps not everyone looked on things so dourly, 
and had good reason not to. So did he, he thought to himself, 
bringing an image of lovely Celia to his mind.

Lovely Celia, her hair touching her slender body with grace 
enough to make any man weep from the joyful sight, and instantly 
adore her beyond reason. Her face a sweet and mellow taste, if 
his eyes could swallow her whole, and forever feel her smile. 
Celia beloved, and to the death his mate and pair. His 
firstborn's mother to be, his miraculous haven where every storm 
subsided and all the seas came to rest.

She was not far from giving birth to their child, and though they 
had known bloodied times of fire, steel and death were drawing 
close, he had at least the surety of her touch and her smile to 
count on and see life or death by.

Now he was denied of her touch, the smell of her breath, the 
feeling of her body clasped against his own, her gaze locked with 
his own, oceans of time passing by in mere moments. Damn them! 
For that hurt alone, he would make them pay. Whoever was indeed 
behind all the lies and curtains of deceit. Behind the 
Castigator. He could feel there must be something to the Gods. 
Every lie, he had observed, has been sown from some truth.

As he walked about the place, he noticed more and more beauty and 
celebrating life in this otherwise simmering cauldron of green. 
Small colourful flowers with overgrown petals and fat, juicy 
stems. Lithe trees that could be easily bent without being 
broken, and thick overgrown plants that dared climb the huge 
trees, hugging them, curled around them like charmed snakes.

It was indeed teeming with life. It remained a mystery to Amonas 
why they had come across no animals at all, barely enough insects 
to simply make their unwanted stay even more miserable. He mused 
for a while at the strange color of the only sun, and decided he 
could not come up with anything resembling an explanation other 
than this was another world to their own, indeed wholly alien and 
undecipherable, at least with the knowledge at hand.

Perhaps they could learn more of it before they returned, but 
that would be more in Hilderich's domain, not his own. He was 
more interested in solving problems, not analysing them 
thoroughly and documenting them for posteriority and further 
study.

It would be a strange day indeed when he would be able to sit in 
a chair and tell his grandchildren stories of the other world. Or 
maybe even worlds. If there are indeed more than one, why just 
two?

The walk had made him thirsty, and he felt like maybe it was time 
for him to return, and with his mind put a little bit at ease, 
perhaps try for some restful sleep. Even though he was used to 
hardship, sleep was essential, and noone could go more than a day 
or so without some sleep, however little.

He had also climbed up an inviting tree, in an effort to see over 
the canopy if at all possible, get their bearings, so they could 
start off in the right direction for the nearest bull-horn. 
Getting the direction wrong while already being lost would be a 
blow to their morale, let alone a waste of precious time and 
meagre resources. 

Back in their own world, the Kinsfolk were about to strike for 
the first and hopefully the last time. Years of planning had led 
to this culminating point, and an untold number of his brethren 
had lost their lives in the effort of keeping it a secret alone. 

He knew they were being followed, he knew they were being 
watched. But he also knew they were waiting for the right time to 
act, catch them all in one fell blow, root them out forever, 
crush them utterly and dispense with the notion of a rebellion 
for untold generations.

He would be there when the time came, that much was the least 
expected of him. And he'd rather die trying rather than abandon 
and shame his brothers in blood and soul. Or face the wrathful 
scorn of Celia; no, he could never suffer that. 

A weak but warm smile crept on his face as he imagined such a 
scene, Celia all fiery wrath, her gaze searing, boring through 
him as if he were made of powdery snow, and he laughed despit 
himself, memories of her rushing through him like a stream of 
water on parched land.

As he approached their tiny camp he could hear Hilderich 
screaming his name over the top of his lungs, probably terrified 
at the thought that he had gone and left him there to die all 
alone, a final twist of a incongruously ill fate. He answered 
back, his strong gruff voice undimmed by the blanket of 
vegetation all around them:

“Coming Hilderich! Just went for a walk!”

Without yet being able to actually see him, Amonas heard 
Hilderich cry out in a near falcetto:

“Damn you I thought you'd left me here to rot!”

A few more steps brought Amonas nearer to their camp where he 
could see Hilderich quite evidently dishevelled, his hair in wild 
disarray from the sleep and the humid hell they had to endure, 
his clothing almost unrecognisable by now, a uniformly grey and 
brown mud covering most of it. Amonas waved a dismissing hand 
from afar, laughed heartily and replied playfully:

“I'd never leave you behind to rot, Hilderich. Simmer a little 
perhaps, but never rot!”

He good humor went largely unnoticed by Hilderich, whose spirits 
where in sharp contrast. He looked genuinely hurt, glum and 
uninspired, giving Amonas a picture of how he must've looked a 
couple of hours before. The thought sobered his mood, and thought 
he had better make Hilderich bounce back from what must have been 
a seriously rude awakening.

Hilderich was keeping silent, casting a look of rightful 
accusation at Amonas, who thought it a little childish and 
perhaps somewhat unbecoming of a man. But their situation was 
indeed unique and perhaps he was asking too much of the man 
already. He cast those blemished thoughts aside and instead spoke 
from the heart, seeking to calm Hilderich and soothe his fear:

“I am sorry I left you alone, but I could not sleep. I went for a 
walk, but I was close by. I heard you when you called, didn't I? 
I could not have been very far. You were as safe as I could vouch 
for in such a place. So please, accept my apologies and think no 
more of it. It only helps to aggravate you, and lower your 
spirits. Here, have some of this.”

Amonas reached into his small sack and brought out a small 
roundish object covered in what seemed to be something like hair, 
thin strands of wood or brown parched grass. He used his knife to 
chop off a small slice from its top, then offered it to 
Hilderich. 

Hilderich made a gesture to take the proferred little ball, which 
looked to be white on the inside, but he shook his head and gave 
it back to Amonas, a hesitant look on his face, a quavering 
quality in his voice:

“You try it first.”

Amonas' pride was stung, since Hilderich seemed to imply that he 
might be trying to poison him. He was about to go off on a rant 
unbefitting his character, about how misguided and foolish a 
person must to still be unable to trust him after what has 
befallen them, but wisely decided against that. After his initial 
surprise and shock lifted from his expression, he took the 
strange cross between a hairy nut and a fruit in his hands, and 
drank a good mouthful.

After he had quite thoroughly sloshed it around his mouth in an 
evident display of the juice's potable quality, he swallowed and 
offered it back to Hilderich who accepted it, even though still 
reluctantly, sniffing the watery liquid inside the strange fruit.

“It's sweet and refreshing. Almost better than water. Drink up, 
you'll like it.”

Amonas was motioning with his head for Hilderich to drink, urging 
him to just have a taste, while Hilderich slowly brought the 
fruit to his lips, eyeing Amonas warily at the some time.

After a brief pause and a small period of uncertainty, Hilderich 
finally took a small sip, swallowed, and then surprising even 
himself in the process, proceeded to empty the small ball of a 
fruit of its watery content.

Amonas grinned in a relaxed manner, and as he laid down to the 
ground to enjoy at least a few minutes, he said to Hilderich 
after closing his eyes and covering his face with one arm, the 
other resting at his stomach:

“I wouldn't kill you with fruit Hilderich. There were ample 
opportunities with better tools. We need to trust each other to 
make it back, that much I can assure you.”

“Oh I know about your assurances so far. I can see them all 
around us, sure as hell.”

Hilderich's tone was rather that of a grudging complaint rather 
than gross accusation. He might be right, Amonas thought, but now 
was not the time to settle such a score. He hoped that they would 
make it back, become friends, and Hilderich would forgive him for 
the misfortunes brought upon him. But until then, Amonas' 
patience would be tried and tested at almost every chance. He 
replied in kind, eyes still covered by his arm:

“Opportunities may arise once more, don't make me want to take 
advantage of them.”

Hilderich opened his mouth wide in what seemed a mock expression 
of shock, before composing himself once more, straightening up 
and saying in what seemed to be his formal tone:

“I'll restrain from further commenting on the problematic issue 
and instead focus on more worthwhile endeavors, such as getting 
back.”

Amonas smiled even as he said in a genuinely friendly tone:

“That's more befitting a Curator now, isn't it?Let me catch some 
sleep, and then we will be off to the bull-horned structure.”

The thought had occurred to him, but he had not given it much 
thought. With the death of his master and half-way in his 
apprenticeship, he was now considered, officially, though without 
seat, a Curator, with all the rights and responsibilities his 
office carried. It was certainly not an apt time, but he felt 
somewhat proud, and suddenly all too grown up and a bit older 
than he thought possible. Amonas added as an afterthought:

“Don't fret over it. You can do whatever you like for a while, as 
long as you don't get lost. Study the trees or the insects, do 
something a Curator would do.”

Hilderich nodded silently and appreciatively, before heading off 
to a nearby log of wood, half of it rotting away, creeping with 
maggots and worms, what he had been taught was the basis of a 
healthy and fertile ground. 

Time passed quickly for Hilderich, who uncovered all sorts of 
different layers of decaying wood, noticing the wood's grain, the 
various kinds of insects that used it as housing, food, or what 
seemed to be a combination of the two, eating tunnels through it 
on which then they laid eggs. 

It was fascinating, he thought, to witness a whole civilization 
of insects in its various stages and levels unfolding in front of 
you in a simple piece of wood, right in front of your eyes, at 
your very hands. How tempting it felt to push the eggs around, 
see how the insects would react, or douse them with water and see 
whether they'd drown. But he was taught that nature knew best, 
and men could only learn from it, not change it. At least not for 
better. So he let the insects be.

When he did so and paused his study of the insect-ridden log, he 
noticed Amonas had quietly awoken, seemingly quite refreshed and 
energised. He asked him if he had slept well, to which Amonas 
answered after briefly thinking about it:”Good enough.”

Amonas then made some broth of what he had found to be adequate 
substitute for uwe, and sipped appreciatively. As before, he 
offered some to Hilderich who again politely refused, but did not 
resort to his small flask of gin. He wisely assumed that they 
would need more of it to light up a fire, and more than just 
once. So he kept Amonas quiet company, until they would move on 
again.

Once they did, Amonas led the way once more with quite 
deliberation, carefully choosing his path as if he could smell 
their destination however afar it might be.

To Hilderich, it was unfathomable how any man could navigate 
practically blindly, without a map or a solid point of reference, 
simply by hunch and a general feeling of direction, both even 
more easily fooled in a chaotic mass of vegetation such as the 
one they were entangled in currently.

When Amonas felt Hilderich needed time to rest, he paused, and 
made sure Hilderich was ready to move on before they set off 
again. Hilderich felt quietly thankful of that small matter and 
made every effort to proceed in a timely manner, never dallying 
too long, until either they had walked for the better part of 
what would amount to a day in this accursed place, or until they 
had reached the bull-horned building.

The heat was as always unbearable and the moisture nearly 
debilitating, but they trudged along, hoping to strike lucky 
soon. If nothing else, Hilderich hoped they would soon rest for 
what should have been night time. Lost in thought and numbed by 
fatigue, Hilderich bumped unwillingly onto Amonas, who seemed to 
have suddenly stopped. Hilderich apologised curtly and asked:

“Pardon me for running onto you like you were made of air, but 
why have we stopped? Are we here yet? I can't see anything like a 
wall or stones or something resembling a construction. So does 
that mean we can rest now?”

Hilderich's voice had an unmistakably pleading quality, and 
though it would be indeed great if they had reached their 
intented destination, it would be nothing short of bliss if they 
would stop and sleep for now. Amonas knew what Hilderich was 
thinking from the look on his face and the expectancy in his 
voice, and replied with a question:

“Did you notice something about this place?”

Hilderich was still catching his breath when he said to Amonas in 
a knowing manner:

“It's too hot and too wet for comfort, what else is there to 
notice?That it's too green?”

“See here, I like some healthy irony from time to time but right 
now it's not what you should be doing. You should be feeling. 
What do you feel, Hilderich?”

Hilderich was about to make some comment in the same vein as the 
previous one, complaining about sore feet and an empty stomach, 
not to mention a dried out mouth.

But once he paused for little more than a moment, he felt it. A 
light breeze, chilly to the touch, a swift rush of air like a 
cloud from the heavens.

“The air is chilly. And everything is not as moist. It's like.. 
It's more of back home..”

Hilderich was genuinely surprised, and looked fittingly puzzled. 
As he tried to make sense of it, Amonas added:

“Well it's not chilly. It's not that hot, cool would be a better 
choice of words. And the light is less intense, it's almost like 
an overcast sky. Like a shadow is over us. We're in its shadow, 
Hilderich. The shadow of the bull-horn.”

Hilderich was enjoying the cool breeze when he pleaded once more:

“Would it be then advisable to get some more sleep now?”

Amonas laughed out heartily at that display of good-humoured 
single-mindedness, and feeling his spirits lifted, laid down and 
started singing a tune his grandfather used to sing when they 
were fishing together, down by the river.

Hilderich was complaining that his stomach felt empty, and that 
they had not secured a source of fresh water. He also heard some 
grumblings about him doing all the really necessary stuff, and 
that Curators should be treated respectfully rather than being 
ignored profoundly. He stated that he would nevertheless procure 
some sort of food since he was the only reliable and responsible 
person in this world which might or might not be an entirely 
different one from the one they called home.

Amonas kept on singing heedless of Hilderich's protests, thinking 
he would be soundly asleep before he had time to finish the song 
came to a finish. As the moments went by, his voice became softer 
and shallower, and then he stopped altogether. Indeed, within 
moments he fell into a slumber, where he dreamt of Celia, and in 
the dream he could feel the cool breeze that was her smile.

Pretty soon, he was snoring heavily, as if he had not a worry in 
this or any other world.




  Meetings and Greetings

He had woken as early as every day, giving thanks to God for 
allowing him to live and breathe once more, and greeted the suns 
as they rose with a hearty smile. His hair was as always tousled, 
gently swayed by the light breeze coming down from the mountains 
and onto the plains that filled his entire view.

Once more he had used his walking stone to guide him, and before 
noon had passed he entered the Land of God proper. He had been 
warned to be wary of these lands, for not everything that roamed 
it was gracced by God, and not all that he may encounter was sent 
by Him alone.

The devious others had plans of their own, and would likely 
oppose him when they saw fit. He should steel himself 
wholeheartedly if he were to carry on with his Pilgrimage, and 
meet his ineffable destiny.

Once he did step foot on the widelands, it was as the elders had 
said it would be: A flat and uninviting country, with low grass 
and trees few and afar, the sounds of animals and birds lost in 
an emptiness that defied the senses and made one humble and 
awestruck.

Then the True Path appeared in its glistening beauty and 
perfection, as had done so many times before. He was witnessing 
the path to his own destiny, and soon he was walking on it, 
treading lightly and with reverance, whenever possible, but 
making haste and good speed, for what good was the path, if he 
dawdled on it for longer than prudence would allow?

As his peregrination took him further into the Land of God, his 
thoughts coalesced bit by bit into how this land was perhaps 
purposefully designed, meant to evoke ascetic feelings. 
Civilization in any form had been kept away from the Land of God, 
as if it had prordained that these lands would forever be a 
sanctum, a land devoted to praising God.

It was a land indeed forbidden to most mortal men, uninviting, 
almost hostile as far as he could tell until now. And the Path 
was there, a clear sign of God's design, a Path for true 
believers, a Path for those that came with holy fire burning in 
their heart, searching for God, a divine purpose guiding them 
deeper into a land that would normally kill a man of hunger, 
thirst or pure exhaustion.

Distance lacked meaning in the Land of God, which almost defied 
logic in its flatness, its emptiness, an emptiness only the love 
of God and faith in him could fill. A terrible void that shrank 
the impure soul and made an unwilling mind recoil in awe, a land 
that turned the unbeliever away, a land where the mandate of God 
was carried ever more strongly by the formidable gusts of wind 
that sweeped its every acre.

It was indeed magnificent to behold, the will of God made 
manifest all around him, a sacred place that he was not only 
allowed, but indeed expected to traverse to its very heart, and 
complete his Pilgrimage, as his God and his people demanded.

God, in his inestimable wisdom had prepared the land more than 
well enough for a believer, for someone who lived and died with 
His name upon his lips, His thought in his mind and His image in 
depths of his soul.

Water, he could find in the small damp spots around the Path, 
when night fell and a hazy carpet of fog crept across the 
immeasurably flat land. He would dig, with either his hands or a 
small flat piece of rock, and he would find a few mouthfuls of 
water to sustain him.

And when he felt hungry and tired, his strength about to leave 
him, as if God kept an ever watchful eye on him from afar, a 
small thin bush laden with tiny berries would appear near the 
road, or a small colony of ants or some other kind of insect he 
could eat.

He always thanked God for these small mercies that kept him fit 
and healthy, that kept him going without delays, other than a few 
brief stops and some much needed sleep. His clothing was good for 
the Holy Land as it was for the lands where his people dwelt. 
Perhaps it was not as cold during the day, but the nights became 
colder the farther deep he went while following the Path.

He kept the wise council of his elders, and never strayed off the 
road. He kept on it at all times, and when he could, when leaving 
it to get to a source of water or find something to eat, he would 
always leave his walking stone on it, with a piece of woolen 
string attached to it, laying it behind him as he walked.

And then when he had drank or filled his belly, he would pick up 
the string and walk right back to the Path and the wlaking stone. 
It was said, that if one strayed off the Path, he might never 
find it again for as long as he walked the Land of God. It was 
blasphemy, for the Path to be revealed to you and then choose to 
leave it.

So he would lay behind him a piece of string, to always connect 
himself with the Path, even when not directly on it. And that he 
would do by strict necessity, and only after solemn prayer in 
which he would beg for forgiveness and recognize his own 
imperfection and crude humanity that had afflicted him with the 
feeling of hunger and thirst.

Thus, he hoped and prayed, God would not be offended and would 
find it in his heart like a loving father to allow the Path to 
remain, to guide his faithful servant on to his Holy destination, 
beyond all the hardships and dangers that might arise in his 
quest.

For if it was a simple, sheltered matter, it would matter not at 
all how the Pilgrimage was made. Anyone would walk about the Holy 
Lands, especially the deceitful liars and archenemies of Gods and 
their followers, soiling the land and air with their mere breaths 
and unclean feet, poisoning the very air with their hideous 
laughter and venomous lies.

No, it was not a simple affair walking through the Land of God. 
And that was why he kept praying each and ever waking moment, to 
thank his God for his magnanimous and benevolent nature, to thank 
him for allowing to draw breath, and drink water as he needed it, 
and feast upon the fruit and the very life of His Land, for his 
heart to keep beating, for his hands to touch the Holy Soil 
without being struck down, without being deemed unworthy.

It was almost dusk, on the third day since he had set foot on the 
Land of God. It was once more time for prayer. He laid down his 
small sack, and took off his cloak, setting it down in front of 
him. He then kneeled on the cloak, and closed his eyes, his arms 
resting on his legs, the palms of his hands touching his knees. 
He then started bowing down low, his forehead touching the Path 
every time, whispered words of reverence coming out of his mouth, 
in the tongue of God which they no longer used, but kept handing 
down as holy passages, from mouth to mouth, and generation to 
generation.

Though he could not understand what the words were saying, he 
could feel their perfection rippling through the air, Holy words 
spoken in the Land of God, like a river mingling with the sea. A 
small trickle of divinity flowing onto the essence of God made 
manifest, the air, earth and water resonating with godly purpose 
and sancrosanct silence. 

Hence His words, the Holy Mantra, which should normally be 
shouted aloud for all of Creation to bear witness to his grandeur 
and wisdom. In the Holy Land, in His Land, His Domain, it would 
be sacrilege to utter them in anything above a whisper. For every 
grain of sand, and every wisp of air, every drop of water carried 
everything back to him, voice, thought and deed.

As he bowed in homage to the creation of God all around him, 
grandiose, majestic, striking chords buried deep inside his very 
essence and soul, he felt pride in his heritage, his people, his 
purpose.

He cast it swiftly aside, since pride was a double-edged blade, 
ready to cut into him when he would feel invincible, safe, 
powerful and righteous. That was not God's way; God taught 
humility, wisdom, faith, belief and love. Not pride, arrogance 
and lust.

The Holy Land was indeed a place to be wary. Even in paying 
homage to God, the ruinous ones could find a man's weakness and 
seep inside him, all the while he believed he was walking the 
True Path. The Path is not just this white, slick and unending 
road; it is a state of mind and soul.

He made the sign of God with his outstretched palms facing 
towards the falling suns, the rising moon a faint gossamer red 
shadow in the hazy distance, where only the line of the dark 
crimson horizon could be identified with difficulty over the 
misty green and yellow of the rising mist.

He stood up on his two feet and wore his cloak, picking up his 
sack and setting off down the road once again. As the chilly 
night rushed to meet him, he thought he could see a figure like a 
mirror of himself walking on the road towards him. He squinted 
his eyes as tried to make sense of what he was seeing.

It was a man, not very much unlike him, lean and not very tall. 
His stride seemed purposeful, and if he had taken notice of him 
walking on the Path, he showed no sign of alarm, surprise or 
fear. It was as if he would go on nevertheless, as if he was 
nothing but a phantom, an apparition of the Holy Lands.

But maybe this was what he was seeing. Stranger things had been 
heard around the lifestones during the coldest nights at his 
peoples' gatherings. It would not be without precedent that he 
should meet a ghost of the Holy Lands, perhaps some other Pilgrim 
before him who wandered the Holy Lands and warned the Pilgrims 
and the faithful, guided them through danger.

Perhaps he was a messenger from God Himself, though it might be 
presumptuous, even blasphemous, to think that God would seek to 
aid him in such straightforward ways that completely and 
blatantly proved his Divine existence.

But he reminded himself to be wary, perhaps he was a ruinous 
force indisguise, an servant of those that would alwys be evil 
and would seek to corrupt men and everything good and wholesome 
that he tried to protect from their rotting grasp and insidious 
machinations.

Perhaps, he was just a man, a believer like him, brave enough to 
seek out God. He would soon find out whether he should strike him 
or greet him like a brother should. He was quite closer by now, 
and he thought it prudent to make some sort of sign, to announce 
himself properly, like a man in the Holy Land should greet a 
fellow man.

He stopped and stood still, and then made the sign of God, 
touching his bowed forehead with one straight palm, offering his 
other hand, showing his clear, empty palm. What the gesture meant 
to those familiar with it, or those of pure mind and soul, was: “
I am a man blessed with God's gift, a mind of my own. I carry no 
weapon, I am your brother.”

The man walking towards him slowed his pace, visibly trying to 
discern the gesture. Then he responded in kind, first with a deep 
bow towards the sinking suns, then with the same sign, albeit 
with the opposite hands, mirroring the Pilgrim's motion. A true 
believer then, or some instrument of God. His blessings were 
countless, his heart leapt with joy at such a sight. A brotherly 
soul, here in the Land of God.

The Pilgrim smiled widely, and picked up his pace to meet with 
his brother from afar. He could see the man coming towards him 
smile as well, his face lit up with enthusiasm and surprise.

Under the faint light of the crimson moon they met each other, 
faces visibly ridden with the signs of hardship only a believer 
would endure to prove his love of God, and stay true to his 
faith. Brothers joined by belief, sharing the creation of God, 
walking on the Path. What joyous occasion such a meeting of 
brotherly souls, in the Holy Land no less!

They were standing opposite each other, and the man in front of 
him, the man who he had seen walking up towards him was younger, 
leaner, and taller than he had glimpsed at first. In the light of 
dusk it was easy to misjudge the shape and size of things.

The young man proferred his hand, and spoke a few words in 
Helican. The Pilgrim didn't speak Helican, had actually never 
heard it before in his lifetime. He was thinking the man talking 
in front of him must have uttered a greeting, or announced his 
name. He seemed friendly, unassuming and harmless. He might be 
speaking in weird tongues, but he made the sign of God. A brother 
under God's view is brother enough. The Pilgrim closed his eyes 
and nodded with acceptance, hands outstretched to his left and 
right.

“Thessurdijad Molo, damn glad to find you. You're one of them 
aren't you? You're one of Esphalon's people. The wild ones.”, his 
voice bright with excitement and unmarred prospect.

The Pilgrim thought it proper to answer in kind, in the tongue of 
God, even if his brother from afar would not be able to 
understand. Indeed, what he said sounded as if it could have been 
familiar, but no sense could be made of it yet. Perhaps some 
common thread could be found while they conversed.

“I greet you as a brother, and you are stranger to me no more. 
His will be done.”

The man's eyes went wide with sheer surprise and disbelief before 
he replied with the words coming out of his mouth faster and 
faster:

“You can talk then! You know High Helican? Your people learned 
High Helican? When? When Esphalon was there? How?”

The Pilgrim look at him puzzled. His brother was as excited for 
their meeting as he was, he could tell. But he was so outspoken, 
so emphatic and energetic. He seemed to have forgotten about 
paying proper respect in the Holy Land, his voice loud and his 
expression wild, his body almost hyperactive, tense with motion.

Still, he could not understand a single word the man said, even 
though he seemed to have repeated a question at least once. He 
might be asking where I'm coming from, or where I'm going, the 
Pilgrim said to himself silently, absorbed in thought. It was 
difficult to believe this was a messenger from God or one of his 
holy servants.

He seemed just a long lost brother, the language he spoke 
altogether different, as so were his customs pertaining to the 
reverence of God. He was quite different, but he hoped he was 
indeed a brother as he had hoped. Though he could always be a 
trap, a machination, an evil thing sent to thwart him and his 
Pilgrimage, to mock God and his divine plan. 

He would not allow himself to fall for such cheap tricks, and his 
wary eye would be on the lookout for signs that would expose this 
man as a pawn of the archenemies. For now, he would treat him as 
a brother, and offer God his prayer, seeking forgiveness for 
thinking such accusing thoughts even in a time that should be 
joyous, for a brother, he hoped, had been found. He smiled, and 
motioned his hands to the sky, head slightly bowed and a thin but 
heary smile on his lips, his voice clear and true:

“Let God guide us wisely. Let He be the answer to any question, 
our light in the dark.”

And with that, he reached for his sack, and took out a handful of 
berries he had only picked up this morning. It would have been 
his dinenr, but knew he now had to offer his brother everything 
he had. It was God's way, and it mattered not what he would eat, 
because God provides.

“You can't understand anything I'm saying, can you?”, said the 
man, constantly smiling, a small bow before accepting the berries 
in a seemingly timid way.

The Pilgrim made the sign of God once more, and looked at the 
strange man he now considered a brother under God, and felt a bit 
saddened that his words could not be understood and his 
questions, he could not be able to answer.

Though he was starting to find some common sounds, he had not the 
wisdom of an elder, or the eloquence of their Prime. He was just 
a Pilgrim, and thanked God silently for that preordained fate 
that brought him to the Lands where noone else can go. Except, it 
seemed, this strange new brother of his.

“You speak High Helican though, but can't understand the simple, 
day to day Helica people learn as children. And unless you're a 
minister gone mad, I'd say you're one of the people Esphalon 
wrote about. You're quoting, aren't you? You've learned it by 
rote? Damn fools the lot of you, then. This is getting so much 
better every day. To think I was ready to botch everything a 
couple of days ago. And now this. Fantastic.”, said the man and 
made the gesture of praising God.

As the man ended his incessantly long phrase, which the Pilgrim 
thought it could contain the man's story, how he came to the Holy 
Land and why, where he was raised and what his people do to live. 
Perhaps he was wrong. He offered thanks to God in the end and 
said a single word he heard clearly. He could learn from him 
then, slowly. They still had an unknown amount of distance to 
travel.

Maybe God had not sent this man to find him, but he had sent both 
of them to find each other. Fate is for God alone to change and 
decide, but he was thankful he would have a companion with him. 
For where else could this man be going, walking on te True Path, 
other than to the Holy Grounds themselves? It was their journey 
now, the Pilgrim thought, and then smiled, carefully pronouncing 
each syllable slowly, before bowing and once again pointing 
upwards:

“Fan-ta-stic.”

“Bugger me, you're trying to learn aren't you? That might come 
even more useful. Esphalon was bloody brilliant, noted down your 
rituals and everything. Must've saved my life. You'd have my head 
with your bare hands if you thought I was an infidel or a 
blasphemer, wouldn't you? Must keep an eye on etiquette then. 
Wouldn't want to, as you might say, incurr your wrath.”

With that last sentence, the man laid down on the Path, without a 
cloak to shield his knees, and offered prayer to God. He must've 
been forgetful, because it was past the time of dusk. But God 
forgives. And it is never too late to ask for forgiveness.

The Pilgrim thought he had been too critical of his brother. He 
seemed weird and acted in a strange way, and his language was not 
either like something he had heard amongst his people or the 
language of God's messengers. 

But he felt it in his heart, this man would become a true friend 
and brother before their journey was through. And perhaps, he 
would learn a quite foreign and alien language. Something he had 
never even thought possible, since he had not known other 
languages existed. The thought made the Pilgrim laugh his heart 
out, a fit of laughter he hadn't had since before he had left his 
people on his Pilgrimage, before he was indeed chosen to.

His new brother looked in disbelief, somewhat dumbfounded, his 
hand pointing at the laughing figure of the Pilgrim. His lack of 
reverence would have to be punished with at least a hundred 
prayers the next day and fasting for two. But the Pilgrim felt it 
was worth it, such laughter must have been welling inside him for 
too long. It was a liberating experience.

“Was it something I did? Never mind, you're probably losing it, 
aren't you? It doesn't matter if you can show me the way. Can you 
show me the way? You've been here before? Do you know the way to 
the Necropolis? Whatever you call it? The way, yes?”

The man was gesturing with his hands up and down the Path and the 
Pilgrim thought he was probably trying to find out “Where does it 
lead?, “Does it lead to the Holy Grounds?”. He should've known 
better, but perhaps he was distracted, lost, fallen prey to some 
of Their machinations and mirages. 

Otherwise he would have been going towards the Holy Grounds, not 
towards the other side of the Holy Land. He must have seen they 
were on the Path, only going in different directions. They would 
now help each other, as good brothers certainly do. So, without 
further ado, he gestured onwards towards the way the Path shone 
under the light of the first stars.

“Bugger me, you do know? Can't understand a thing, but this is 
all your own stuff. Well then, lead on, I'll just trudge along 
and look like I'm praying when you do.”

The man was smiling gently, bowing constantly and offering too 
much praise and thanks to a mere brother, but he was otherwise 
quiet and respectful of the Path, the Pilgrim thought.

They started walking together side by side on the marble road, 
under a starry-lit sky. And they were both as happy as any man 
can be.




  Stirred within

Sleep never came that night to her. Her tears flowed freely for 
the better part. She stifled the worst of the sobs and moans that 
welled up from her insides, but still she wept. By morning her 
face was that of an older woman, eyeslids swollen from the crying 
and sleeplessness. She felt horrible, the child within her seemed 
equally disturbed. How could it not be, if its mother was in such 
a terrible state?

She had left her windows closed, drapes and curtains tightly 
drawn shut. She cared not whether the suns had risen, and a new 
day had dawned. She wept for her only love, the one half that 
matter most in the world. The other half, his own half as well, 
was stirring uneasily in her belly. She tried to think comforting 
thoughts but all she managed was to utter with a croak:

“Sleep, my loving child. Sleep, for I cannot.”

She wandered aimlessly from their bedroom, to their kitchen, 
every once in a while hugging herself as if vainly trying to land 
herself in Amonas' arms. But to no avail, he would not appear out 
of thin air. And still she cried, at times silently with tears 
welling up in her eyes, and other times fitfully, the sobs that 
she could not contain released in languish.

She pined for the father of her unborn child, to hold him and 
caress his face. To kiss their fears and troubles away. But he 
was not there. He was nowhere, it seemed. As if he had been 
spirited away, by the same sort of devils that had caught poor 
Philo.

But no body had been found, and none had come for her or her 
child. Philo would never talk, he would never give up his blood 
brother, his mentor, his friend. She suddenly felt a pang of fear 
in her heart, as if it had been struck violently, nearly coming 
to a halt. Was the child safe with her? Did she need to run, run 
like the wind and the winter streams? Disappear like she had 
never existed?

And what about Amonas? What happened to her love? She could not 
for one second think of him as no more, as dead, as a body limp 
and unmoving. He must be alive, somewhere. In hiding, running for 
his life. And he had that other man with him. He would be running 
to protect him as well. That was why he hadn't come forward to 
her, or sent a message that he was well and alive.

It must have been a matter of secrecy. How tired she had grown of 
all these dark affairs, so many lies upon lies. The lies they had 
sworn to break and burn away, those very lies were what kept them 
alive, probably. What irony, to have had your life built around 
what you despised most.

It was the only way, they had kept telling to themselves. The 
only way they could change things once and for all, the only way 
they could spread the truth and uncover the deceit that blinded 
them all. And this was the way he was gone now. Perhaps forever.

The dark thought contorted her face into a mixture of anger, pain 
and weeping sorrow. She held her head in her palms, sobbing 
silently. She was constantly going through the same phases: 
Sorrow, then anger, then a faint sliver of hope would dawn upon 
her and recollect her thoughts, compose herself somewhat.

And then fear would grip her once more, uncertainty for her child 
would sweep everything clean, and the vicious circle of gripping 
emotions and harrowing memories of happier times would start 
anew.

And she would weep and cry and throw herself against the walls 
until she could stand it no more; and then she would think of her 
loved one that might be dead and would never live to kiss her 
again, and hold his child in his arms.

And then she would weep once more, all the tears of the world 
coursing down her cheeks, like she was amidst the torrent of pain 
and anguish that ran throughout every living thing. She would 
suffer until noone had suffered before, and it would not stop 
until she either died herself, or her love was standing right in 
front her, calling her to his arms.

The child stirred within, as if it was calling out to her, as if 
fear had touched it deep inside, past the warmth of his mother's 
belly, and chill crept up all around it. She tried to soothe her 
child, and inspite herself started to sing an ode to the streams 
and fields, a song of merry melody, something that would have 
Amonas smiling and laughing within moments. She would not cry at 
the thought, nor think him long gone. She would sing it in quiet 
waiting, and strong hope. She would sing it for their child's 
sake.

And so she did, and her voice echoed in her empty house, which 
suddenly felt brighter, warm and full of charming smells, like 
cinammon and naristhel, and lermentis leaves, and honeyspice and 
mint. All those smells that brought the senses joy, and a smile 
on their face.

The child felt quiet now, the singing had relieved it of fear and 
brought back the warmth in its heart. It felt like it was asleep 
now, comfortable in its mother's womb, who herself felt soothed, 
her fears cast away for the moment, her hope shining more bright, 
her heart beating with renewed vigor.

Her mind was filled with thoughts: He would be alright, Amonas. 
He would be fighting or running all the way back to me, like the 
lovely fool he is.

She strolled around the house for a while, thinking that she 
could not longer sit here idle and miserable. She had to find out 
what had happened, see for herself. After all, she felt she was 
not safe sitting here anymore. Neither her nor their child.

It sounded a foolhardy and unnecessarily risky, her mind told 
her. But her mother's instinct shouted that she should run away, 
find another shelter. Somewhere where she might give birth as 
safely as possible. She was due anytime soon, each day could be 
the day their child would be born.

Her condition made moving all the more difficult so she would 
require some assistance in her endeavor. She thought about moving 
out to the countryside, take what coin she could and find some 
good people, some family to take her in, at least until she gave 
birth.

But things were about to get hectic, she knew. And soon there 
would be very few people that she could trust. Amonas had chosen 
to keep her well away from the happenings and goings of the 
Kinsfolk, so she had only met and knew Philo, who was supposed to 
be her guardian and protector should anything happen to Amonas. 

She had been frightened at the thought, but had accepted it as a 
realistic precaution. The irony now was that with Amonas missing, 
and her protector arrested she would have to fend for herself. 
Poor Philo, what horrible fate must await him at the hands of 
those tyrants?

She would have to turn to the Kinsfolk for their help. At this 
time of need, with an uprising boiling right under her feet, the 
child almost on its way, what should she do? Run away, fearing 
for their lives everyday? Never knowing who to trust, with every 
possibility of war raging throughout the territories? No, it 
would be foolish.

She might have been foolish with her own life before, before she 
was graced with Amonas' and her child, but now she would give her 
all to protect her child. And this was her best bet, find the 
kinsfolk before all of Pyr turned into a nightmare, and stay with 
them until this nightmare was ended and a new day dawned.

For better or for worse, she would be amongst friends, free men 
and women, brothers and fellow believers in the just and right. 
It was time she accepted that there would be nowhere safer than 
right in the heart of things, where the revolution was about to 
spring out from like a restless stream. A revolution more like a 
mad, furious river overflowing with the tears of the downtrodden, 
the poor and wretched, the ones that were made to disappear in 
the middle of the night, their cries haunting the streets like 
ghosts trapped in a hellish afterlife.

That knowledge, the knowledge of the deeply rooted injustice, the 
tyrannical masterminds of the Ruling Council, the lies and deceit 
spread through the ministers, all with the same purpose of 
breeding sterile and harmless minds like sheep, all that made her 
subscribe to Amonas' purpose. 

She saw the truth behind his words, behind every poor beggar and 
every blind former soldier, every child dying of hunger and every 
old man hanged for blasphemy and sin that no God would allow, if 
he had anything at all to do with the real world.

All that steeled her, and made her finally decide. She would seek 
out the kinsfolk and actively join them and participate in any 
manner that she could. Not just for the safety of her unborn 
child, but for its future life.

She knew then instinctively that Amonas would have been proud for 
her right now. Making such a decision. Not out of a childish 
conception of bravery, or duty or a vainglorious attempt at 
posterity.

But because she genuinely cared, she actually hoped and wanted 
their child to grow up a free person, not bound anymore, not a 
cripple in mind or soul, but a person free to build his own 
destiny, free from oppression of the spirit, free from 
misconceptions and prejudice.

A person that could think of his own, decide for himself, live in 
a world of endless potential. Someone that could dream of 
reaching out of the stars without fear of being damned as a 
heretic, a blasphemer, or a raving madman.

If it was a boy, she thought to herself and smiled, she would 
like him to be like his father, but not too much. Carve his own 
destiny, raise a family of his own, set the example to those 
around him, be cherished and loved. He could be anything, an 
artist, a poet or a painter, and he could put down on paper and 
canvas the feelings, emotions and thoughts none had dared so far.

He could be a man of reason and logic, and make something useful 
out of things like steamers. And think of new, exciting and 
purposeful uses to make the lives of people easier, and carefree.

He knew in the end he would be a wonderful man, just like his 
father. Who he will meet and grow to cherish and love, the man 
who will help him become happy and whole in his life.

She smiled at how she corrected herself even in her thoughts, and 
bit her lip thinking what it would be like if the child was a 
girl. She would be born a free woman, and she would have all the 
time in the world to become what she wished.

She could become so many things that would have been unthinkable 
before. She could become the thinker and the tinkerer, and then 
her baby brother the dancer, like his mother.

These thoughts of merry prospect brought her glee and her face 
shone. She could not wait for Amonas' to return. She now felt it 
would be impossible for him to miss the birth of his firstborn. 
She would tell him all about her plans when they met again. After 
she had smothered him with kisses.

But first things first, and that blessed reunion would have to 
wait.

She picked a rather small sack, and carefully picked up some 
things she would either need or would miss terribly. Some letters 
from Amonas, that would also serve as proof he was her husband, 
if it came to that. The flute he had carved for her, which she 
played to him on the colder nights, the both of them wrapped 
together under heavy sheets, playing endlessly until the break of 
dawn, and making love without a care.

And then a few clothes, her nightgown and a blanket or two, in 
case she had to spent a few nights on the road. She packed some 
leftover breadpie from yesterday, and remembered to fill a flask 
of water from the well before she would be off.

It would be best not to tell anyone, not even dear Rovenia. It 
would do her no good to upset her and make her worry without 
being able to help in any way. Once she was gone, it would not be 
long before the revolution proper began and then noone would be 
safe.

It would be best if she warned her somehow, but what could the 
poor lady do if she knew of the gathering storm? This house was 
all that she had left, no spouse or children to speak of. She 
would stay, Celia thought, whether there was a rebellion going on 
or not. Then again, she had proven to be somewhat of a rebel 
herself. Cinnamon breadpie on a Watchday! An audacious old lady, 
indeed.

Her small sack was packed to the brim, ready to burst. Outside 
dusk was falling, but she would wait for the night sky to appear, 
when it would be easier for her to find the men she was looking 
for. She would try some of the places they had met with Philo, 
some inns and some artisan's stalls that stayed open past the 
usual times, in the corners of the market were most avoided 
because of their ill reputation. She would take a large kitchen 
knife, just for good measue.

She might not look like it, bloated belly and all, but she could 
move real fast. A dancer, a really good dancer like her, has 
certain qualities that can be put in more than one use. At that 
thought she brought up a particularly fond memory, and giggled 
inspite herself, like a little infatuated girl.

Oh, he would be back and she would scold him properly for leaving 
her alone like that. A pregnant woman mere days before being due, 
a world-shattering uprising in the works, and the husband, off on 
a tour!

She suddenly broke down in tears, the tension that had kept her 
going suddenly released. The fear and uncertainty did not return, 
but she felt she should slap herself for trying to lose herself 
in forgetfullness, act is if nothing serious was happening, like 
she could be all play and games when she saw him again.

She composed herself and stopped crying, and let the tears down 
her cheek run dry. This was all deadly serious, and he might be 
dead. She knew it in her heart he wasn't, but she had already 
learned life could be so full of surprises, and not all of them 
good. So she turned her heart into ice, and gave the thought some 
possibility, which only made her cold and distant from her usual 
self. 

At that moment, she took a vow on her life and the life of her 
child, that she would fight in any manner or way possible, for 
the future freedom of her child, and if things were so, in memory 
of her loving husband, Amonas Ptolemy, to honour his legacy and 
offspring, as he would have wanted so.

Time passed slowly, and she grasped the opportunity to have a 
last look around their house. Their bedroom, were he had loved 
her with passion and care, sometimes a strong lover, unyielding, 
discovering every inch of her body with a conqueror's lust. Other 
times, he was soft, mellow, caring and delicate, like the gentle 
breeze that caresses the flowers and meadows and flows freely 
wherever it pleases, always welcome.

It was here where their child was conceived. It must have been 
one of the coldest nights, when he took her under the sheets and 
made her forget the world existed, in such a way that she could 
not remember now whether it was truth or fantasy. The child in 
her womb though was real enough, his seed taking place well 
enough.

She was caressing her belly absent-mindedly when she walked 
through her kitchen, the wood stove unlit, the fireplace glum and 
silent. It was as if the room itself mourned her leaving. She 
would miss all the times she would prepare their meals with 
loving warmth, making sure there was always uwe on the table in 
one or another. Amonas loves uwe, she knew.

She had been quietly absorbed in thought, her gaze fixed 
someplace irrelevant, when she happened to look outside the 
street. Night had finally fallen. It was time she left.

She lit up a single candle in their bedroom, at their window 
sill, as if in memory of the time they had spent together, 
gathered her small sack and went outside, careful to close the 
door behind her.

She noticed lady Rovenia must have been outside, because she 
could see no candle lit. Perhaps she was already asleep, early to 
rise, early to bed. She thought she should have said goodbye, but 
it might be for the best in the end. Her love went out to her as 
well.

Soon she was mingling with the night crowds of Pyr, common pyres 
lighting up the streets and the more lively parts of the market, 
were stalls sold meats and some women sold their bodies. One 
could find anything he desired in the market of Pyr, as long as 
one searched hard enough in the right places, that much she knew.

On her way to one of the inns, she noticed she was attracting 
unwanted attention; surely it seemed that a pregnant woman should 
not be walking outside in the market all alone. She should have 
thought to somehow cover her belly, accomodate for her shape.

All she could really do now was try and stay in the shadows. With 
one hand she clutched her sack over her back, and with the other 
her solid kitchen knife. She felt she was ready for violence, but 
she couldn't be sure if the need did not arise, and she dearly 
hoped it didn't.

At length, she reached one of the inn's she remembered Amonas 
saying were more than sympathetic to their cause. It was one of 
the few places she had seen Philo in public, and when she did it 
was indeed more of a social gathering, a few friends enjoying a 
drink together.

It was indeed more than strange, in some cases depending on the 
circumstances and the phase of the moon literally a sin, for a 
woman to have a drink amidst the company of men, even with her 
husband present. She thought all that was about to change soon, 
and entered the inn as any client would.

Some of the men in the tables nearer to the door turned around 
and looked at her with stout disapproval, some even voicing their 
objections and threatening to call the procastinators to make an 
example of her. ”A pregnant woman no less”, she could here some 
say in what appeared to be disgust.

Those few left their coin on the table and left in a boisterous 
but rather pretentious manner. Most of the others who had 
protested more mildly returned to their drinks which seemed 
rather more interesting than an unscrupulous woman of probably 
lower moral fiber than their own.

Those who did not return to their drinks and kept on pointing, 
some even calling her names, she ignored in an exemplary fashion. 
Soon, they focused their attention on other matters, and her 
entrance was then only memorable in passing. She hoped they would 
all drink up enough to pass out and remember little of the 
matter.

Before she could reach the innkeeper's bar, the man approached 
her and drew her aside by the arm, quietly and gently:

“Please lady, what are you doing? Why aren't you at home? This is 
no place for a woman, no less one carrying!”

He seemed genuinely concerned. Celia felt instantly he could be 
trusted so asked him straight as an arrow:

“Do you know a man named Philo Dutur, or Amonas Ptolemy?”

The man's eyes narrowed and his brow arched, became tense. He was 
evidently disturbed by the names, certainly surprised. He replied 
with a question of his own, his hand still gripping one of her 
arms:

“What are they to you?”, his voice steady and demanding, no 
longer just a gentle, caring innkeeper.

“One is a friend, the other a husband. Please, I am looking for 
friends in a time of need.”, she uttered with sincerity, her hand 
holding the sack putting it down momentarily to reach in her 
pouch offer the man a generous amount of coin.

The man recoiled at the sight of the coin, took a step back and 
released her arm:

“My apologies lady Ptolemy. Please, no pieces of venom, not from 
you kind lady.”

She motioned to her to stand behind his bar. He gestured with one 
hand for her to wait there, and she indulged him so. He went 
around the tables, filling up the cups of his customers with 
beer, wine, meade and spirit, each one to his poison. After he 
had a second look, he leaned over the bar and told her in hushed 
tones, imparting hidden knowledge:

“Where you stand, there is a hatch on the floor. Feel around for 
a handle with your hands and pull it open. I'll call for my 
brother to watch the place while I make some excuse and come down 
with you. Wait for me there, I won't be long.”

She nodded in acknowledgement and the innkeeper ventured a smile, 
revealing a few bad and broken teeth, and a silver one that must 
have cost him a small fortune. Still, it seemed genuine and since 
she was flying blindly it would make little difference if she had 
went to some other place.

She comfortingly thought that any place she would try that night 
would be somewhere she would be treated at least as a friend, and 
that lifted her spirits somewhat.

She cast a few guilty looks around as if she was about to try 
something forbidden, and went down on her knees. She found the 
hatch and the small handle, and pulled. Faint light was shooting 
upwards and she could see a small ladder going all the way to the 
cellar floor.

She threw down her small sack first, and then carefully placed 
her feet on the steps one after the other, her large belly giving 
her a little bit of trouble. She was standing in the inn's 
cellar, and looking around her she could see row upon row of 
glass bottles filled with a variety of wines.

And then much larger casks and barrels, some smelling of wine, 
and some of beer. A metal contraption filled with pipes and 
resembling a large sort of cauldron must have been a still, but 
she wasn't all that sure about those things.

Until she had time enough to look around, the innkeeper showed 
himself, coming down the same way she did moments earlier. He was 
a short but sturdy man, thick red moustache and a slightly bald 
scalp giving off a friendly, jovial image. He proferred his hand 
and bowed slightly before introducing himself:

“Rewe Dutur, at your service lady Ptolemy. I did not know you 
knew Philo personally.”

Her expression was kind, but somewhat severe, almost grave:

“Why do you say 'knew' kind sir? What have you learned of him?”

The short man looked her straight in the eye with a slight blur 
forming up on his own, and said with finality:

“I do not expect to see my brother ever again. But do not lose 
hope on your husband, we have confirmed he and his friend were 
not captured. Let's make sure my brother gave his life quickly 
and painlessly, and not in vain. Come now, please. Since we know 
Philo and Amonas were probably betrayed we must also assume you 
are not safe in the streets. If Amonas is still alive, getting 
hold of you will be one of their priorities. I will lead you to 
somewhere safe, at least for now. It won't be long. Have you had 
foreword, did someone approach you and lead you here?”

Rewe had gestured for her to follow him through some cellar 
corridor, all the time talking to her.

“No, no one did. It was my decision. I hope I am not imposing on 
you or your people. I felt it was time. With Amonas missing, and 
the child on its way. I thought..”, she shrugged apologetically, 
and though she thought she had all the reasons laid out, she was 
now at a loss for words. 

Nevertheless, she was following Rewe's steps through what 
appeared to be a hidden door, cut away in the dirt, a small 
tunnel of sorts. Rewe had produced a torch from some place only 
he knew where to find in the total darkness, and lit it up with 
ease using what appeared to be a small stone. Rewe took notice of 
her surprise and told her kindly:

“Even better than flintlock, my lady. It was most fortuitous you 
did that. If it was that somebody had lead you here, I would have 
reason to believe we would not live through the night. As it is, 
we would never had done that. We had been left with strict 
instructions to distance ourselves from you in any way possible. 
If someone came to you, he would be one of their lackeys, not one 
of our own people.”

“Amonas' told you to leave me be? Fend for myself?”, asked Celia 
quite puzzled as they made their way through the small winding 
underground passage that was dug intermittently between layers of 
lime and dirt, small wooden frames supporting the ceiling where 
needed.

“Amonas thought if it came to that and he was not around, you 
were quite more than capable of protecting the child and 
yourself. He wanted you to stay indifferent to them, never become 
a target through which they might be able to test his loyalties.”

She was surprised and felt both proud and slightly put off. 
Amonas would not abandone her or the child like that. But she 
thought, if he could not be there for her, he thought this was 
the best way to protect her, keep her away from it all, as he had 
from the start. “Oh, Amonas, that thick skull of yours..”, she 
whispered as she followed close behing Rewe who turned his head 
slightly to ask, never pausing in his stride:

“Pardon, my lady?”

“Never mind.. Rewe is it?Just thinking aloud. I want you to know, 
I know Amonas will return. And I have always hope for Philo. He 
is the sturdier man I've ever met. He will hold out as long as he 
has to.”

Celia was being truthfull but ultimately she was simply putting 
more wish rather than thought in her words. Rewe was not as blunt 
as before when he said:

“I would hope so too, lady Ptolemy. But please, let us pick up 
the pace. Can you do so without causing trouble for the child?”

“You're being too kind, Rewe. I am fine, go faster if you must.”

Indeed, Rewe opened up his pace and soon they were walking rather 
briskly through a series of turns, widening and narrowing 
tunnels, eithers crudely cut into the rock, and others finely 
bored with care and precision.

They must have had been walking for at least a quarter of an hour 
before Celia at length broke the silence and asked:

“You said we were not far, but I have to ask, are we there yet?”

Rewe turned his head around to reply, his silver tooth casting 
off a shiny reflection of the torchlight:

“Perfect timing my lady, right around the next turn we will be 
heading back to the surface. We will part ways there.”

“And in whose company will you be leaving me, Rewe?”

“All in good time my lady. I would think you would have more 
questions I could not answer, so have some more patience.”

“Alright then.”

Celia nodded with acceptance, and they had now reached a 
crossroads of tunnels. Rewe then used the torch as some sort of 
knocking apparatus. He used it to knock on what seemed to be 
finely cut limestone, in a series of rhythmic knocks using pauses 
in between, as if playing part of a tune. Some kind of code, she 
guessed.

Indeed, a strange kind of challenge sounded, a series of knocks 
from the other side of the limestone. Rewe seemed to pause for a 
while, and then proceeded with a different series of knocks. The 
limestone slab was slowly pushed aside, and strong candle light 
filled the underground tunnels. A small simple wooden ladder was 
lowered, and Rewe motioned Celia to climb it. Silently, he bowed 
and waved her goodbye before losing himself back the way they had 
come. Celia squinted at the bright light as she came up the 
stairs, onto what seemed to be a very plush kind of cellar, with 
exquisite bronze and silver decorations on the walls. A whole 
wall devoted to grand collection of what seemed to be wine 
bottles. A smiling old man in a luxurious servant's suit complete 
with velvet vest was the sole occupant. He seemed a rather 
upstanding and polite man who helped her make the last steps up 
the stairs, offering his hands as support. She looked rather 
mystified at her whereabouts, and as she was ready to ask the 
venerable servant where she was, probably his long experience and 
hard years of service prompted him to greet her before she had 
time to open her mouth:

“Greetings my lady. I see you are carrying. Please, lay down on 
the couch. It might not be quite the most comfortable couch, but 
I suppose it will have to do for now. I shall bring you 
refreshment and a choice of sweetmeats and roast lamb liver that 
I believe are good for the child. Anything at all, I am at your 
disposal.”, the old man's voice tactful, polite, and convivial. 
Proper use of language and etiquette. A most experienced butler.

“Kind sir, I am fine. I do not wish for anything to eat, but some 
refreshment would be welcome. I have to thank you for your 
hospitality in advance, but tell me though, where am I.”

The old servant bowed somehow uneasily, but said smiling:

“Excuse me for not greeting you fully and properly, my lady. The 
trappings of old age, you see. It would seem you are the honored 
guest of his eminence Ursempyre Remis, Lord of the House Remis. 
Will some fresh fruit juice be to your liking, lady?”




  A fool's resolve

Tyrpledge was as was pertinent and indeed unavoidable over the 
past few days in his minute office, sitting at his desk, piles of 
reports and inventories stacked in front of him as high as his 
forehead. The minutiae of a preparation for complete mobilisation 
were indeed innumerable.

Personnel manifests, rotation forecasts, materiel inventories, 
requisition forms, count practicals, soldier and officer levies, 
clothing requests, workshop and mill necessitation orders, 
movement and guard formations, forced labor documents.

All of these, and quite some more kinds of papers and formal 
scrolls had to reviewed, amended if needed, edited, signed, 
forwarded, then signed again and scribed, before sent out in a 
seemingly never-ending vicious cycle of bureaucracy and stale 
ministry procedures, designed to triple check and record 
everything that went on, making sure nothing seemed to stray in 
weird, unexplored territory that would alarm the various 
officials and by natural order the Archminister himself.

All this paperwork and mind-boggling interdepartmental anarchy 
had the general sitting wide-eyed at his desk, papers strewn all 
over his desk, a carpet of ink and white that made his head dizzy 
merely by looking at it, much less reading it.

He leaned over and put his elbows on the desk, resting his head 
on his hands, gently massaging it as if that would make the 
terrible headache go away. All this had him thinking about his 
carreer in the army in general. He somehow wished he could go 
back in time and almost fail at pretty much everything, and get 
Gomermont's job for a change.

Instead he leaned again back on his chair, the muscles in his 
back stiff from constantly sitting and signing since early dawn. 
His wrist hurt like he had been practicing with a sword since 
yesterday. He looked at the plain and unadorned ceiling, his eyes 
out of focus, and seemed to ponder deeply the state of affairs he 
was in. 

The army had been metaphorically, though almost literally at 
times, handcuffed and thrown around like a useful but dangerous 
idiot for almost ever since its inception and creation. The 
hindrances and bureaucratic steps that are constantly battling 
the army and its people are designed in such a way as to extend 
the period of time it takes for troops to assemble, equip and 
move, from days onto weeks.

The concept was thoroughly and widely known as a safety measure 
against people in the army trying to achieve power through 
strength of arms, perhaps even change the balance of power within 
the Ruling Council to include the General of the Army.

There had been precedents surely, but that was another time 
entirely, when the Territories were still young and the people 
dumbfounded by the new emerging order of the world, one common 
rule for all, under one religion. 

There was bound to be some dissidence, some kind of resistance. 
It was well known that even the earth opposes the river's flow, 
but the ending is inevitable. So it came to be that Shar the 
Traitor only achieved in permanently making the army a mere 
lapdog, at the beck and call of the Ruling Council, blessed be 
their exalted souls.

And so I'm stuck here, he thought, trying to build a machine of 
war faster than what is conceived possible, with almost anything 
and anyone at my disposal, except from freedom of action and the 
ability to ask for things and make them happen.

Even with the help from the Archminister that had indeed 
expedited some processes, Tyrledge was experiencing significant 
delays in most of his petitions and requisitions. It all had to 
sift through the gargantuan train of Ministry processes, 
officials and hearings, disappear in its labyrinth offices, clerk 
pits and then back up again through the same path, in order to 
probably, but not always most likely, end up in something useful 
and tangible.

The more he thought about it, the more incredulous it all seemed, 
but it was manifestly real. The other day, he just remembered, he 
had received a notice of an annuled material request for a 
shipment of chisels required for the maintenance and construction 
of most of the siege engines. The ministry's reasoning behind the 
annulment was mystifying at best:”Said objects are still under 
examination for safety reasons”.

It seemed the ministry was contemplating whether or not a 
military coup could put chisels to good use, in preference to the 
usual swords, scimitars, bows, steamers, slingshots, siege 
engines and the good old knives.

Their lack of trust was crippling. He was given a colossal task 
that was daily compounded with the burden of the ministry's 
schizophrenic tendencies that balanced precariously between 
gross, outright denial and a maniacal urge to have everyting done 
and ready armed merely with ink.

The archminister had been quite unable to help, since this was 
how everything worked and reiterating the jumbling mass of 
ministry people to adopt new sound practices in a matter of days 
was just as inconceivable as totally circumventing the antiquated 
ministry machine. In essence, he was caught between a hammer and 
an anvil. With nowhere else to go, he knew he would have to 
endure. He could feel the pressure though, and it was rising to a 
crushing level.

He got up from his office and decided to have a little stroll 
outside. Maybe some fresh air would invigorate him. As he left 
his office, his aide-de-camp and various other officer belonging 
to his immediate staff saluted crisply, most of them with papers 
and ink in hand, designated to handle some of the bureaucracy 
whose scale defied that of behemoths.

He left orders for his aide-de-camp that he was not to be 
disturbed or communicated to in any way while he was out having 
his walk. Anything it was it would have to wait for him, not the 
other way around.

He might not have a vote on the Council, but he didn't like being 
pushed around like a junior officer after 45 years of humble and 
devoted service. It felt wrong, that was the word. Plain wrong. 
He reached for someone's mug of fresh uwe and without a nod or 
excuse just picked it up and went outside in the clear cold air.

He looked casually over the throngs of artisans, labourers and 
soldiers going about their frantic work. The artisans were 
terribly busy constructing breakable, portable siege engines, 
refurbishing and testing the steamers that had fallen in 
prolonged disuse. Even with the sudden influx of forced skilled 
and unskilled labor, he could easily discern they were behind 
schedule.

In the background to the main staging area of the army, labourers 
were hard at work ferrying ore from the nearby Ilo and Rohms 
mines. The mines were working at full capacity non-stop, the 
noble families that were allowed to operate the mines failing to 
reach the needed production. Already, procastinators teamed up 
with squads of army men were instructed to gang-press as many 
people as needed to meet the allotted quotas.

There were less than ten days left before the army was expected 
to march fully armed with the maximum strength of trained men. 
There were still thousands of weapons and pieces of armor to be 
made, which meant more and more ore each day.

Forges had been setup right here, but artisans were already 
starting to break down from exhaustion. Work had been issued to 
forges and workshops around the Territories, and failure to meet 
the allotted quota assigned to each was punishable with death.

The same went for the grand fields of noble families. It was 
reported that even the Lords themselves, the heads of families, 
were working their own fields, busy to harvest as much grain, 
wheat and fitlle as possible, however premature the season.

The whole of the Territories was living and breathing in 
preparation of the army - everything else had come to a 
standstill. Mills had broken down from excessive speed while 
grinding endlessly. Rumours of some of them catching on fire 
trying to meet the demands could not be far from the truth.

Horses and tract animals of all kinds like cows and donkeys were 
being taken forcibly from their masters, inmost cases the only 
animal they had to work the lands or make a living with. Huge 
convoys stretching from one side of a town to the other were 
being created by local procastinator forces, and went about the 
countryside, picking up whatever it was on their ministry 
approved lists, filling up cart after cart of supplies and 
materials for the army.

All of that wealth was congregated and amassed in even larger 
convoys that stretched from one end of the horizon to the next, 
filling up the few roads that carts could go traverse. Some of 
them had already started arriving at Pyr and the staging area, a 
huge stretch of land to the south of the City, where once the 
harbor of Urfallim with lay.

The harbor was made a new, and ships from the farther reaches of 
the Territories should begin arriving in the next couple of days, 
like the convoys cart, laden to the brim with supplies and men, 
flirting with disaster from being overweight and prone to sinking 
should they happen upon bad weather.

Procastinators around the lands with the authority of the 
ministers rounded up men fit for duty of all ages, those who had 
received military training as militia men in the past, as well as 
new recruits that could not tell the pointed tip of a spear from 
a moose's behind.

It was happening too fast for comfort, too hastily for anyy 
serious preparation to be made, plans laid out and understood. 
The people under his command, from the high ranked officers, the 
colonels and brigadiers, to the lowly green recruit, would not 
have enough time to prepare, get their bearings, get to know what 
their purpose would be, their orders and responsibilities.

He hoped first that he could put it all together in time, since 
failing to do that would mean his head. He though about that, and 
it did not frighten or trouble him, not in the sense it would 
most people. Of course, it would be more than unpleasant, but he 
had long accepted that he would be asked at some point, sooner or 
later, to give up his life for the glory of the Gods and the 
Castigator.

It had just never occured to him that such a time would come 
rather later, right before he would be rotated to an easier life 
of teaching young aspiring officers. And it definetely had not 
occured to him that his death might not be because of an enemy's 
spear, sword, rock, arrow or fire, but because of failing to meet 
production quotas.

Perhaps it would more specifically boil down to a lack of 
chisels. The thought brought a bitter smile to his lips, and he 
sniggered with a dark sense of amusement.

He wished he could have a smoke right now, a nice pipeblend of 
uwe, keplis and dark tobacco, but he had given up on the habit a 
long time ago, and now lacked all the assorted paraphernalia, as 
well any sort of tobacco to speak of.

Perhaps a one of his officers would be so kind as to volunteer a 
pouch and a pipe. If it came to that he would order him to do so. 
He grinned for thinking like a brash cadet once more, and sipped 
a hearty mouthful of uwe from the cup he had confiscated with 
authority from one of the desks.

It tasted horribly. Some idiot had let the uwe leaves boil along 
with the water, and the result was a horrible green broth fit 
only for mules and perhaps sailors. He threw the cup altogether 
and headed back to his offices, his head much more clearer but 
his mood equally, if not more glum than before. He made a mental 
note to himself to reprimand the one responsible for the terrible 
uwe tea.

Once he entered the planning chamber which was filled with his 
officers, he noticed it was completely silent and everyone inside 
firmly standing to attention. He thought he had given orders that 
with such hectic work going on, discipline should be lax. He 
couldn't have everyone standing stiff as a corpse every waking 
minute, and the shouts of “Aye, sir” were a cacophony his ears 
and head could do away with.

When he gestured them to sit down and go about their work with a 
simple flick of his hand and they did not comply, only then did 
he notice a figure standing in a corner of his office, which 
happened to turn around and address him at that exact moment:

“Oh, General. I trust you don't mind. You have a very nice 
selection of boar teeth. Impressive samples. Quiet the hunter, 
are you not?”

The Castigator was dressed in simple loose combat clothes, no 
marking or insignia. Only his face and sigil implied his person 
and stature. His tone of voice was conversational, unassuming 
enough but not overly friendly.

Tyrledge bowed deeply by reflex, and though at first he was 
utterly surprised and about to lose his words like the 
Procastinator Militant almost had, he managed a constrained and 
somewhat witty answer:

“Naturalist, your Reverence. I study animals, not hunt them down. 
I believe there are more than enough people for the job.”

The Castigator turned to face him, and quietly stepped off his 
office. At length, he said:

“I was told you had left strict orders not to disturbed by 
anyone, under any circumstances. Your aide-de-camp was quite 
adamant, though somewhat hesitant. I understand I can be hard to 
deal with at times.”

The Castigator shot a mystifying look at the general's 
aide-de-camps, a young major who was perspiring visibly but 
remained otherwise at stiff attention, unflinching at the 
Castigator's remark.

Tyrledge resumed from his bow and said with a casualness that 
sounded strange in the presence of the Castigator.

“Had to clear my head.”

The Castigator nodded in acknowledgement, and gestured outside 
with one gloved hand.

“Let's walk then.”

The general nodded, bowed, and went for the door himself. The 
Castigator walked outside and the general followed behind, 
careful to observe protocol and keep a proper distance.

The Castigator was keeping his hand tied behind his back, 
surveying the landscape. It seemed as if he was enjoying the cold 
wisps of air sweeping in from the south, almost craning his neck 
in a seeming effort to smell the sea breeze.

After a small period of time spent taking in the scenery as if he 
were a visiting tourist, the Castigator spoke, turning to address 
the general face to face. His hair was slightly ruffled by the 
gusts of air that were quite common this time of year in Urfalli, 
and made for good ship-running as well as the working of the 
mills. He said to Tyrpledge:

“Tell me, General. Skip the formalities, and tell me what you 
really think about all this. This campaign. It's put a lot of 
strain on you and your people, hasn't it? And you'd have to be a 
gibbering idiot like the Procastinator Militant not to question 
my motives for such an operation. Who wouldn't want to know what 
he's going up against, true? Please, Tyrpledge. Be unpleasant if 
you have to be honest. I do not consider myself a man easily 
taken by petty flattery, and neither should you.”

Tyrpledge felt a bit surprised, perhaps even shocked from such a 
straightforward manner. It was strange enough when the 
Archminister came to him and extended somewhat of a professional 
courtesy towards him. It was more than strange that the 
Castigator himself, of all people, would be so direct in his 
approach. It probably meant things were about to get all too 
serious, too suddenly for comfort. His voice was straight and 
professional, perhaps a bit sullen when he replied:

“True enough, sire. I'm blindly preparing for any scenario and 
contingency I can think of, working everyone to near-exhaustion 
to have as much as possible ready within the allotted time. If I 
may say so, the extend of the mobilisation you have requested is 
simply overwhelming. There may be a possibility that we will not 
be ready in time, sire. Not completely, not fully. I can 
guarantee a bare minimum of a well-equipped, well-trained and 
disciplined fighting force, but I cannot do the same for the full 
weight of our armies. We are still receiving conscripts and 
draftees from the villages and towns, people that have only 
worked with shovel, pickaxe and hoe. We need more time, sire. Or 
we will not be able to field our maximum numbers.”

The Castigator absorbed what was in essence a verbal report from 
the General, and said to him:

“That is all very well, General. You've worked nothing short of a 
small miracle, as far as I can tell. But, you still haven't 
answered what concerns me most. Don't you want to know why we are 
going into the Widelands?”, his voice with a more rough edge, a 
hint of menace, perhaps anger in it.

“That would be a very helpful piece of information, sire. It 
would be crucial in designing a proper campaign with objectives 
and timelines to capture and follow. But, if I may be less 
circumspect sire, I cannot for the life of me fathom what we will 
be doing in the middle of what is practically no-man's land.”

Constrained exasperation showed in Tyrpledge's voice, but he 
remained otherwise calm, professional.

The Castigator let off what could be considered an unseemly 
laugh, and continued to say:

“So, it does feel strange, doesn't it? No matter. There might be 
a change of plan.”

The General furrowed his brow before asking, his moustache 
seeming to somehow follow the motion:

“Change of plan, sire?”

The Castigator came a step closer and looked in the eyes, cooly 
but sharply, as if he wanted the General to feel he was being 
threatened, physically, right then and there. Then he asked, his 
words coming out with slow deliberance and heavy thickness:

“Where does you allegiance lie, General?”

The General did not flinch, and replied with ease and confidence:

“The Castigator, the Pantheon, the Law, the people. Sire.”

The Castigator smiled and turned to leave towards his escorts who 
were discreetly waiting at the entrance to the planning chamber, 
having appeared at some indeterminate point. As he walked away 
from the general, he raised the tone of his voice to be heard 
clearly:

“Remember that well, General. I might need you before long.”

Breaking point

“At such a point in time, with all that has transpired and 
revealed to me, I cannot honestly say I know clearly where my 
allegiances lie. I can only hope that a clear mind and perhaps 
some sort of sign will push me over to make the right decision. 
What passes for right though these days, is making less and less 
sense.”

- Lord Ursempyre Remis, Letters, Vol. IV p.221

  Two steps beyond

Amonas woke up feeling refreshed. He sat up and flexed his arms 
and legs, all the time his gaze towards the direction of the 
bullhorn. It had been a more than pleasant change to find 
themselves under the shadow of the immense structure that seemed 
to blot out the sun quite effectively for the whole area to have 
a different feeling all together.

First of all, the one thing they noticed almost immediately was 
the different climate. Instead of the scorching heat and sticky 
moisture, they felt they could have actually been back in their 
own world, during a hot summer overcast day.

The heat was much more sensible, and their sleep had felt much 
more relaxing and refreshing than before. The moisture was still 
a bother, but it was not aggravating as much as before. And there 
was no night time to worry about chilly wetness brooing through 
thier bones. It was an almost pleasant, comfortable climate.

Even the vegetation seemed to be somewhat different. The trees 
for one thing, were visibly smaller, and the canopy above them 
evidently thinner, so even though the shadow let less light 
inside, the canopy was thinner and let more of it through. So, 
lighting conditions were about the same, a twilight of sorts that 
though eerie at times, did not put a strain on the eyes.

The greenery was still lush, but it was as if it had shrank a 
notch, the leaves were smaller, thinner, the stems resembled 
proper plants instead of soft green pipes. There was less rotting 
vegetation on the ground, much fewer dropped leaves. It almost 
felt like a weird forest that could have been somewhere on the 
far away lands of the Territories, like the south where they said 
plants like no other grew.

Amonas decided not to go for a little exploratory walk as he had 
done before, so as not to alarm Hilderich a second time. And in 
any way now that they were in the bullhorns' shadow, he knew they 
were on the right track, and all they had to do was keep going in 
the same direction. It was a matter of time now.

He would have to worry about what they would actually do only 
when they got there. For now, he was more than content to feel a 
gentle rush of air, quite a novelty in contrast to the 
non-existent wind in the sunlit parts of this place.

They hadn't found a source of water like the small trickle of 
water that must have been condensed moisture, running through a 
jumbled mass of thick leaves and a particularly shadowy spot 
somewhere high above in the canopy.

Instead he thought they could rely on that strange hard-skinned 
fruit with the sweet watery juice inside. He could see clusters 
of the trees at various distances, and a nearby tree had even 
shed some its fruit of its own volition. Amonas thought they 
would probably be most ripe and quite sweet, if trees worked like 
they did back home.

The word even though only uttered in his mind, brought his 
thoughts to a halt. He looked at the ground reflectively, a 
fleeting sadness visible on his face. It was not just that he 
longed to see Celia again, even though they had not been apart 
for more than a week.

It was the worrisome feeling of being unable to protect her that 
wore him down. He had told his kinsfolk to keep their distance 
from her, even if something happened to him and he would be 
unable to be there for her. More so, especially if something 
happened to him.

As luck had brought things about, he was far away, out of reach, 
with no means to communicate that he still drew breath. His 
people would probably think him dead, or running for his life.

But with each passing day with no sight or sound of him, no 
message left behind, without some kind of proof, they would 
silently accept the fact that he might not have escaped the 
clutches of the tyrants.

If he was being kept alive, reason would dictate that they'd 
somehow manage to know, and perhaps hope he would still be alive 
when the uprising began in earnest, which would be pretty soon, a 
matter of days.

But men had been known to complete vanish before, men that had 
attracted the ire and viciousness of the ruling scum that still 
chose to wear the facade of divinely appointed men of honour.

He was just one man after all. He would not hold it against them 
if they already believed him dead, drowned at the bottom of a 
lake or river, butchered and fed to wild boars or roaming dogs. 
They had seen it happen before, they all knew the dangers and the 
ignominious ways the Patriarch and the Castigator chose to 
dispose of their enemies.

But he could not bear the thought of lovely Celia thinking him 
forever lost, never to return her trusting gaze, never more to 
hold her when the nights were cold. How did she take the news? 
What did she make of them? Was she drowned in sorrow, her spirit 
broken?

He never thought of her as a fragile thing, a snowflake that melt 
by touch alone. She was not a little woman, a hapless gal. She 
never did mind her own business, and she always spoke her mind. 
She was proud of her accomplishments, and knew her strengths and 
weaknesses.

That was though what he feared most. He was one of her few 
weaknesses, now that he was gone. He felt a knot in his stomach, 
at the thought of her giving up, burying him alive with that 
little ritual they buried their dead kinsfolk.

He could picture her, dancing to the tune of a weeping song in 
his memory, and then losing herself in the hills and fields, 
roaming the lands. Until her days became unbearable, the thought 
and memories crushing her like a millstone crushes seeds, 
grinding them to oblivion.

No, he thought, a sparkle erupting in his heart, his gaze 
shooting upwards through the canopy toward the uncaring, seamless 
sky. She was with child, she would try and burn the world itself 
before anything happened to their child.

She would come through this, she would endure. Even if the 
thought of his death weighted her down, she would find a way to 
use it as a focus. She might even go as far as thinking of 
avenging him. She was a fierce woman, he knew. She would be a 
terrible force to behold indeed, as a mother, and a grieving 
wife. He would definetely not want to get in her way.

The thought made him grin with a sense of pride and amazement, as 
well as renewed optimism. He tought to himself that since she 
would be fine, he had no reason not to do as well.

He decided to rouse himself into action, and started off towards 
the fallen hard-skinned fruit he glimpsed earlier, when a sound 
like a man desperately gasping for air mixed with what reminded 
him of creaking wooden hulls of ships, made him pause in his 
stride and turn around to the source of the cacophony.

It was Hilderich and nothing more, awaking with a clatter and a 
show that Amonas had never thought possible, even more so in 
their current circumstance, without even a blanket in hand. 
Still, Hilderich somehow managed to give off the impression of 
someone who had been very violently and quite against his wishes 
woken during a lusciously promising dream after a night of heavy 
drinking. And all that with only soil and fallen leaves under 
him.

Amonas waved a hand and boosted his voice just for good measure 
before asking:

“Nice of you to join the ranks of the living once more. Going to 
get us some of those sweetwater hardskins, care to look for 
anything else while I'm at it before we move on?”

Hilderich yawned with his mouth forming an impossible angle. For 
just a moment Amonas thought his jaws would fall out of place and 
his skin snap in a horrible way, blood and bone spurting forth.

Thankfully that did not come to pass, but he was still mesmerized 
by the way Hilderich's mouth could stretch. He still didn't know 
Hilderich as much as he wanted to, but he knew that he was a man 
indeed full of surprises. It's not that he didn't trust him or 
felt wary of him. It was just that he made him go wide-eyed with 
surprise at the most curious of places.

“Ehm? Hrm. Ah, the hairy brown ones you mean. The brown ones. 
That'll do as an appellation until I can sort it properly. Yes, 
I'll be fine with a brown one to quench my thirst. I slept 
wonderfully, thank you, almost better than back at the keep. Bad 
case of insect infestation. Never mind. Oh, and some food wood be 
most appreciated. I believe I can get the fire going.”

“Refreshing sleep, I must say. I'll try for some of those 
mushrooms, but if I can't find any, you will be scavenging these 
woods my friend. And don't throw all the gin in one go.”

With that, Amonas picked up a brisk pace and walked off into the 
distance, not needing to hack his way through the much less dense 
vegetation. Hilderich languidly got up, his gaze flicking all 
around him, looking for an inviting bush or hopefully a bunch of 
fallen branches somewhere nearby.

Hilderich rested his hands on his waist and surveyed the 
landscape around him. He would inevitably have to engage in a 
wider search than what he could merely browse just by standing 
there.

So he set off as well into the direction of what looked like a 
promising cluster of older-looking trees, their bark craggy and 
moss-laden, happily whistling a tune he could not possibly 
remember what it was.

Amonas seemed to be well-versed in surviving skills and at ease 
with finding his way through this remarkably chaotic mess of a 
forest. Hilderich on the other hand knew his own limitations in 
orientation, which had failed him more than once even in the 
simple confines of his master's keep.

So he used what he thought was a quite practical way of keeping 
track of his whereabouts: he took off his cloak and cloth shirt 
and hanging the white linen shirt on tall yet thin green stalk, 
he decided he would stray only as far as he could keep an eye on 
his shirt. Unless he went blind or some mysterious lurking thief 
of the wild came along and stole his linen shirt, he felt safe 
enough to wander away in search of some hopefully less than soggy 
firewood.

When Amonas came back with his sack filled with various edibles, 
he was surprised to see Hilderich naked from the waist up, 
sitting next to a few piles of wooden branches and bulkier logs 
sorted by size as far as he could tell.

Hilderich was sitting idly, his back propped up against the trunk 
of a tree, legs sprawled nonchalantly. He looked expectantly at 
Amonas sack and said in a casual manner:

“What took you so long?”

Amonas put the sack down, laughed cordially and began picking up 
wood from the piles to build a fire.





When it was time to move on again, their heart, especially 
Hilderich's was not in it. The pleasant environment in 
combination with their stuffed bellies was a major disincentive 
to even stand up and stretch, much less start hiking again in a 
brisk pace.

Even though the ground was totally flat, the only variations in 
height coming deceivingly from the various degrees of thickness 
in vegetation, it was still an activity that required some degree 
of energy and patience.

In any case, all their energy seemed to be drained from the need 
to digest. They had indeed enjoyed a small feast: brown ones, 
some other green horn-like fruit with soft sweet flesh, as well 
as something that resembled wheat in taste and form, but was 
oversized and purple in color. And then some other kind of crisp 
fruit, red flesh in the inside, wonderfully juicy and 
marvellously mellow. 

With Hilderich displaying genuine culinary audacity, mixing 
various fruitstuffs together and roasting them in small leaf 
parcels, they had indeed made the best of what Amonas had come up 
with, which was surprisingly, and thankfully, quite a lot.

Amonas had joked about how sorry he was for having been unable to 
find the pack of boars for which the piles of wood had been 
amassed. Hilderich had insisted that Amonas had been gone for 
quite some time and it was perfectly logical that having nothing 
much else to do, he would have kept picking up more wood if he 
hadn't felt stiff by the effort.

They thought about it and thought it would be better for them to 
let their stomachs do some work first before they set off, so 
they talked at length, something which in the short time they had 
known each other, they had not found an opportunity for.

So they lied down around the embers of the fire, hands behind 
their heads, comfortably peering through the canopy of the forest 
wherever they could, invariably seeing not a wisp of cloud, more 
by habit rather than curiosity or expectancy.

Hilderich talked about his curator's apprenticeship and master 
Olom. Amonas shared his memories from a time that seemed remote 
now, when master Olom was a close visiting friend of his 
father's, when he had not become shunned by most Curator's and 
practically forced to live as a recluse, and a hermit, rather 
than an esteemed member of the Curatoria Prefecta.

Hilderich had been surprised to know that Olom was in fact a gin 
connoiseur, and Amonas even remembered he had brought a distill 
of his own as a gift once. He somehow thought better of the old 
man now, though saving his life as he did seemed to have been 
reason enough to like him immensely, even right before he died.

Hilderich asked politely about Celia, having seen Amonas' reading 
some of her letters, but Amonas was somehow reticent. He 
apologised to Hilderich saying that it was not an appropriate 
time for such a discussion, but promised him though that he would 
be more than happy to introduce her to Hilderich when they both 
got back. 

At length, and after a time period of grace that Amonas seemed to 
be less than averse about, and once they both felt they could do 
so without pain and anguish from bellies about to burst open, 
they started off towards what Amonas had declared as the proper 
direction.

After a while, Amonas was showing signs of uneasiness, stopping 
every once in a while, trying to feel the brush of air. He craned 
his neck, as if the air had a strange scent, something intangible 
but yet evident all around them. Hilderich could not smell 
anything out of the ordinary, or feel something out of place. He 
noticed though at some point while they were walking, a tingling 
sensation, some the hair in his back and hands rising as if a 
chill had settled in.

Hilderich asked Amonas about it:

“You are uneasy. Even I can tell. What is the matter?”

Amonas puzzlement showed in his voice. He was hesitant, reticent, 
as if looking for the right words.

“I feel.. Weird. I cannot put it words. Nothing specific. But, 
there's something in the air. I cannot tell for certain. But it 
feels.. Unnatural. Wrong.”

“This whole place is wrong. The suns are wrong. There's no moon 
and no night. What could be stranger?”

“You don't feel it? A reek of sorts. Something permeating the 
air, something impalpable. As if a bad taste is circling in my 
mouth. It makes me nervous, I'll admit. You have felt nothing 
wrong? Nothing different?”

Hilderich shrugged, and motioned with his shoulders in 
uncertainty.

“Nothing as in the way you put it. Nothing intense. I did notice 
my hair rising slightly from time to time. Perhaps it's the air, 
getting colder.”

“No, this is not because of a chilly breeze, Hilderich. There's 
something about the place. The sense grows stronger the closer we 
are getting to the bullhorns. Keep a wary eye and mind. This 
place might not be as pacified and indifferent to us as it seems.”

Hilderich nodded thoughtfully in acknowledgement and asked Amonas 
with some anxiety in his voice:

“Do you think we are in danger? Of the immediate kind? Someone 
following us? Waiting to ambush us or something of the sort?”

Amonas sighed and resumed walking, his pace not as energetic as 
before, his gaze darting around him, watching for something he 
felt like he wouldn't be able to see until it was too late.

Hilderich pulled his cloak tighter in an instinctive motion, as 
if it could protect him, ward him from anything that might be 
wandering or lurking.

At length, even with their slowed down pace and their almost 
paranoid wariness wearing down their minds, they finally reached 
the base of the bullhorns. They could visibly tell because the 
vegetation thinned out to small bushes and insignificant groves 
abruptly.

In the hazy background they could indeed see a wall of sorts 
engulfing their field of vision. Once they were past the last few 
trees and plants, a trench of sorts lay there, mossy but clearly 
man-made, clear-cut lines and angles defining it, not deeper than 
the height of a man.

And beyond the trench, was where the bullhorns front face 
dominated the horizon, defying the senses in a matter none of 
them thought possible.

It was indeed gigantic, blocking out the sun with ease. To their 
left and right, all they could see was the wall of the bullhorns 
as far human vision allowed, the horizon visibly incapable of 
containing it., an immaculate black mat wall, its appearance 
obsidian like. 

It seemed to be shaped like a huge mount, wider at the base and 
narrow on top, like a solid triangle of sorts, a tetrahedron 
master Olom would call it, Hilderich thought quietly. It seemed 
as if it was painstakingly constructed of small bricks or blocks 
of whatever material it was built from.

The wall face rose with a small inclination, the blocks forming 
steps that seemed to be possible to climb with some difficulty 
because of their dimensions. The huge horns could be seen further 
higher and farther away, sitting majestically atop a tall summit 
that could easily be as high as any mountain of the outer 
Territories.

Amonas urged Hilderich onwards.

“Amazing isn't it? A man made mountain. Come, let's have a feel 
for it.”

“Is that wise? Much more importantly, is it prudent? I think I am 
tingling intensely. You don't feel strange?”, Hilderich said with 
a worried frown on his face.

“Oh, more than ever. But this is what we have been walking for 
all this time. We have to know what it is.”, Amonas replied while 
still gazing all over the surface of the immense wall.

“Can we even pretend we might be able to? I mean, look at it. An 
immense megalithic structure in the middle of a huge exotic 
forest. Not to mention that it is not unique and there many more 
like it, probably innumerable from what we've seen.”

Hilderich seemed troubled, perhaps a bit scared as well. Amonas 
thought it was more than normal and perhaps wise considering 
their situation, but he cast aside his own doubts and 
concentrated on appeasing Hilderich's fears, appealing to his 
logic.

“Even grains of sand in a beach can be counted, if one has enough 
time and is dedicated enough. Focus at what's in front of you 
Hilderich, don't fret over things we don't have to care for 
immediately. And where is your analytical thinking? How do you 
know it's made of stone? You said megalithic. If it was obsidian, 
it would have some shiny quality, wouldn't it? This looks quite 
different. Ever seen mat black stone like that?”

“I had never seen brown hairy hard-shelled fruit with sweet 
watery juice before, but I drank from more than one. That proves 
nothing. Plus, it was a logical to assume it's made of stone. 
Didn't think you would feel comfortable with such vocabulary.”

“I can read too, Hilderich. How can you know what it's made from 
if you don't even touch it?”

“We could poke it with a stick or something, see if it's 
dangerous.”

“It's a wall, Hilderich. Whatever's strange around here, it's not 
just the wall. Besides, can you honestly feel serious about 
yourself when suggesting that a wall could be dangerous?”

Amonas' voice was mockingly serious, meant to relax Hilderich's 
doubts and make him focus on finding out as much as they could 
about this unreal structure. He definetely needed Hilderich's 
clear and precise thoughts, not a muddied assortment of insecure 
comments, defeatist thoughts and morose attitude.

“I never thought I could be displaced in a place with one sun and 
no nights just by stepping into a column of light, but here I am. 
Indeed, here we both are. After that, I could expect anything of 
this place.”

“You'll never forgive me about all this, will you? Never mind 
that. I'll touch it for you if that's what's occupying your mind 
so fiercely.”

Amonas held out both of his hands and touched the block of stone 
that stood right in front of him, the first line fo steps leading 
to the bullhorns summit. Nothing happened. Amonas smiled to 
Hilderich disarmingly, to which Hilderich nodded unenthused.

“So, the wall won't kill us. Not outright at least.”

“Now that the walls are safe, what do you think we should do? Any 
thoughts on what this thing is? A monument of some sort? Should 
we try and walk around it, find an opening or an entrance, if 
there is one? Or should we climb up to the summit, to where the 
bullhorns are?”

Amonas had pretty much laid out their options quite concisely at 
that point, but Hilderich was still skeptical, one hand 
scratching at his three-day old beard.

“Walking around it would take a couple of days, my guess is. We'd 
be searching for something we assume might exist. I don't know. 
The other thing is that this wall face is shadowed, but the 
others can't possibly be, not with just one sun, one source of 
light. That means we would be scorched dry with all that sun and 
nothing much in the way of making ourselves a shade. So, I have 
to conclude that the only viable course of action at this point 
is indeed to climb up the summit. We could try and search this 
wall from edge to edge, but I don't know what might come of it. 
Quite possibly nothing. Whoever built this thing would be indeed 
quite an eccentric if any door would be cryptically lying in an 
obscure, random position. But that's just my guess, and not a 
very educated one. All I have to base my conjectures upon is 
rudimentary knowledge of common practices and some plain old good 
sense. But all that on a different world.”

“Convinced we're in another world then? That the Pantheon is a 
tale for conditioning weak minds and obedient slaves?”, Amonas 
voice suddenly became harsh, almost a rasp.

“That's entirely another issue. I am convinced that we are in 
another world because of this damn sun and all the trouble I've 
had the displeasure of enduring in this place. But I've seen 
nothing so far that proves the Gods don't exist and everything 
we've based our society on is a lie. There are some lies 
involved, certainly, but I would be hasty to reach such a 
conclusion of perhaps catastrophic consequences and implications. 
Besides, I'm just a Curator, and only because of chance and the 
edicts of the Curatoria Prefecta.”, said Hilderich shrugging as 
he uttered the last few words, careful to intone the name of the 
society of Curators in which he belonged now, by right of his 
master's untimely death. 

“Believe me when I say there was no chance involved in your 
master's death. And though I have strong reason to disagree with 
you wholeheartedly, perhaps I'd be as reticent as you are to 
accept something that would wipe my notion of the world clean. 
But there you have it in front of your eyes, a thing that just 
doesn't fit.”

Amonas' voice was clearer than before, though he sounded 
exasperated. Hilderich nodded slightly in reticent agreement, 
before shifting the subject to the main question:

“Well, I do. So, are we going to climb up this oddity?”

“We are. I'll lead on and help you when you need it. I wager 
we'll need to make a few stops. It's breathtakingly tall, for one 
thing.”

“I hope we will not be coming down empty handed.”

Hilderich was packing his cloak into a roll, while looking sourly 
at the height-defying summit.

“Who can foretell? Life's full of surprises, as you already know. 
Let's hope they'll be pleasant. I've even gotten used to the 
peculiarities around this place, the strangeness in the air. It 
seems to be connected to the bullhorns. As if they exuded some 
sort of aura.”, Amonas' gaze following the slight curves of the 
bullhorns.

“I thought auras were something only people gave off, and perhaps 
the suns.”

“Well, that's what it feels like I guess. It's strange, but not 
exactly hostile. More like, cagey I would call. It's like it 
wants to be left alone.”

“Let's hope it doesn't have a very good reason for that.”

And with that last remark, once Hilderich had folded his cloak 
neatly, Amonas began their long, effortful climb up the steps of 
the bullhorns' base.

They had started their walk a few towards the bullhorns a few 
hours ago, but the walk was easier than before and less 
demanding, so even Hilderich felt he could go on for a few hours 
more.

The large blocks of jet black though cleanly cut and smoothly 
finished, as if from fine porcelain, offered enough friction for 
a man unused to climbing to be able to push himself upwards. 
Hilderich felt it was somewhat like reaching for the top shelf of 
a cupboard. Child's play then, he thought, only somewhat much 
more taxing on the body.

Indeed only after a little more than a hundred steps, Hilderich 
felt cramps and stiffness overtaking his aching body, especially 
the legs where he put much of his strength in to propel himself 
upwards on the large blocky steps.

Amonas noticed and motioned for Hilderich to take a breath for a 
while, relax his muscles, stretch, and breathe. Hilderich's lungs 
were starting to burn, but he hadn't complained. Just as long as 
they'd made some progress.

He peered over at the landscape stretching behind them, trying to 
make out where they had originally arrived, where they started 
their trek from, but he was unable. It all looked uniformly green 
and jarring, trees after trees after trees, a green sea under a 
green sun. Amonas was standing a few steps above Hilderich, 
looking thoughtfully at the stepd behind them. At length, while 
Hilderich was stretching, feet dangling over the steps below, he 
said with a hint of worry in his voice:

“You know, I counted the steps up so far. You seem to be jaded. I 
cannot say I'm not tired either. The problem is I've counted one 
hundred and seventeen steps. If you look at the summit does it 
look any closer to you?”, Amonas pointed at the summit of the 
bullhorns, without looking directly at them, but rather looking 
at Hilderich.

“Uhm.. I'm not very sharp-eyed, but I'd say not at all. It looks 
like just as it did when we were at bottom. Means we're going 
real slow with this, aren't we?”

“Yes we are. I don't know if we should go back down ant forage 
some more before coming up again. We might actually need more 
than a day to get up there, it seems. And we'll need some food 
with all the effort we're putting.”

“Luckily for you I've kept a brown one and a couple of those 
horn-shaped soft-flesh fruit. They should do until then, with a 
little bit of economy on our part. I dread to think I climbing up 
this monster so I would have to go back and forth each time I 
felt hungry or thirsty. And after all, if there's nothing 
important up there, something like that pillar of light that 
brought us here, then we'd be stuck here, wouldn't we? We'd have 
all the time in the world to go searching for new exotic fruit 
then, I woulnd't worry.”

Hilderich's tone was ironic, even caustic, but Amonas thought 
bitterly that he was right. If their climb did not bring them 
closer to home, then nothing else would. At least not in any 
foreseeable future. He wouldn't have to worry about provisions 
then.

“You're right, Hilderich. How are you feeling now? Stretched a 
bit, didn't you? Lungs feel better, refreshed? Ready to move on?”

“Ready as I'll ever be.”

And so they started off to the summit, prepared to only stop for 
some breathe and relaxation, careful not to push their bodies 
beyond their limits. They climbed slowly but steadily, sweat 
pouring from the pores in their skin. The higher they went the 
more they could feel the existence of the wind, sometimes a 
gentle breeze, other times a rough gale. The warmth of the air 
varied, sometimes hot as it was below on the ground, other times 
chill as they had never felt it before here, under this sky with 
its single sun.

They stopped when they needed to, and moved on when they felt 
their legs and lungs could go on. But the higher they wentand the 
more time passed, it became more and more difficult to climb and 
their pace dropped considerably, their pauses increasingly 
frequent and more prolonged.

But they had made good progress. They could see the bullhorns 
clearly now, rising as majestically as ever, indeed towering over 
them, dominating the sky above. But they had still some way to go 
before they reached the summit proper, and those last few steps 
seemed to put weights of lead on their legs and pour fire in 
their lungs with every breath.

It seemed as if they wouldn't make it and actually stop shy of 
the summit, forever perched on a jet black step of the bullhorns. 
But, with grudging determination, and the constant urging of 
Amonas to ignore the pain that made even breathing quite a 
daunting task, they finally reached the last step, and the summit 
lay all around them.

Panting from the exertion and the toll put on their lungs, they 
sprawled themselves on the surface of the summit which was 
similar, but not entirely, to the blocks of black material they 
had been climbing on for what must have genuinely been hours on 
end.

For a few minutes they lay there, doing nothing but squinting at 
the ever-present sun, and breathing deeply, trying to get their 
lungs to work normally again. They felt almost unable to move 
their legs, and their whole upper body was stiff from the tension 
and the aggravated efforts to reach the top. They had succeeded, 
but that had left them drained and exhausted, staggeringly so.

Amonas was the first of the two to stand up with visible effort 
and strain, and try and walk about the summit, a large terrace 
from which the horns themselves sprouted from on either side, one 
of them casting a permanent shadow on the wide mat black surface. 
He grabbed Hilderich by one shoulder as he still lay down, 
seemingly ready to fall asleep, and roused him to action once 
more:

“Come on, Hilderich. A last bit of effort. Let's stand at the 
shadow over there. It's a bit of a walk, but I promise, you can 
sleep later on.”

Hilderich moaned audibly, expressing both the fatigue that had 
overtaken him as well as his reluctance to even lift his head in 
protest, much less walk someplace in the state he was in. But to 
Amonas' surprise, evident in the furrow of his brow, Hilderich 
managed to pull himself together and stand up, though with pain 
written all over his face, and creaking and crackling noises 
coming from his joints, bones, and muscles.

At length, they reached the base of the shadowed horn, where 
Hilderich let his body almost go limp and fall on the surface, 
uncaring of its hardness.

Amonas sat himself down with less violence, and noticed that 
Hilderich had not hurt himself in any way by his fall, or did not 
seem to feel any pain. At least not greater pain than the one he 
already was in.

Amonas then spoke with a weary, yet friendly voice:

“Finally, we've reached the summit. And there's shadow to rest 
under. I'd try and look around for what we can find, but we're 
both exhausted. I think we should rest properly first. The place 
won't go away under our feet right away now, will it?”

Amonas grin, as well as anything he said at that point was 
useless. Shortly after he finished his sentence, he heard 
Hilderich snore in his usually loud and unworried way. He then 
knew Hilderich must have really overworked himself getting up 
here. He felt Hilderich was warming to himself and by inference 
to their cause.

But maybe he just wanted to get back as badly as he did. To what 
was Hilderich coming back though? All he had left was a promise 
to master Olom. Find the Stoneforger. Did such a person even 
exist, or was it as so many other things had been proven to be, 
just a myth? He'd have to see for himself to believe it. Amonas 
felt like sleeping as well. His body craved it, and his mind told 
him he could more than use some right now.

Before he laid himself to sleep on the hard surface of the 
summit, he picked Hilderich's cloak, unrolled it and threw it 
over him. He had no intention of nurse-maiding him all the way 
back home, however little or long it would soon prove to take 
them.

Once he had taken care of Hilderich's meagre comfort, he turned 
to face the other bullhorn, closed his eyes and before even he 
could think to himself “this whole world must be huge”, he had 
fallen soundly asleep.

The first one to notice the vibrations was Hilderich. He woke up 
suddenly, as if emerging from a fitful sleep, a nightmare instead 
of a dream. He could feel a throbbing sensation coursing through 
his body, very much unlike a headache or some other pain of the 
senses. It was a deeply mechanical sensation, as if the very air 
was vibrating. As he stood upright, senses on the edge waiting 
for the next sign of impending disaster, he could feel his teeth 
clatter upon each other involuntarily. He woke up Amonas 
immediately by rather indelicately kicking him in the ribs where 
he lay. Amonas was sluggish coming around when the whole surface 
underneath them lit up like a miniature sun lay within it, a 
bright white light underpinning their figures. The throbbing 
became a more audible trembling, a deep rumbling feeling that 
seemed to come from way underneath. His surprise alerted his 
reflexes and with a sudden and deft move he was on his feet, his 
head turning in all directions, trying to establish some sort of 
enemy direction to no avail. Hilderich spoke hurriedly to Amonas:

“Something's happening. This place suddenly came alive. We have 
to do something quickly. This might be our chance! I suggest you 
start looking around.”

Amonas was still a bit drowsy from his sleep and slow to react, 
but he eventually nodded in acknowledgement and visibly a little 
flabbergasted from what was going on around him, he asked 
Hilderich:

“Our chance for what? What are we looking for?”

“Anything! Anything at all is better than nothing! A lever, a 
button, a piece of tile sticking out, a mark, a sign, a sigil, a 
symbol! Anything that could be used as a control, anything that 
might react to a human touch! Anything you can find that's not 
just sleek, or black or both.”

Hilderich left Amonas standing there trying to picture in his 
head what he would be exactly looking for and walked away towards 
the center of the surface, while at the same time the rumbling 
grew louder and the light stronger.

Hilderich though in a frantic state, and not in complete control 
of his thoughts and actions, certainly far from being cool-headed 
and analytical in such moments, still had a knack of noticing 
things that stood out. The blemishes, the one piece that didn't 
quite fit, the important bits. So, after a quick look of the 
bullhorns themselves, his mind was now working in a sort of 
slowed down time, where every scene in front of his eyes could be 
slowed down almost infinitely, brought to a crawl. 

There, in a bubble of time, or a heightened state of mind, he 
would find what seemed important, come up with theories about its 
existence and role, its properties and characteristics, then 
start eliminating what didn't fit or was not as probable, and in 
the end come up with a solution to a problem, or a keen insight 
that would prove to correct and to the point.

Then his mind would resume its normal operation so he would be 
capable of speech and most other things considered useful and 
indeed necessary for basic survival. It was something that he had 
caught with the corner of his eye, and had pretty much arrived to 
a conclusion about its significance before he could turn around 
and yell to Amonas:

“Lie down! Now!”

Amonas' reflexes were much better than Hilderich's and he had the 
clarity of mind not to question people when they instructed him 
to cover himself, or avoid something, since they usually did so 
with the intented purpose of saving your skin. His body moved 
almost of its own volition and he let himself fly towards the 
hard surface of the bullhorn's summit.

As he did so, his eyes caught a glimpse of what must have been 
nothing less than fiery death. He was barely able to see a giant 
ball of fire hurtling itself with blinding speed towards them, 
towards this particular bullhorn. There was a silvery quality 
about the fire, and as it came over through the bullhorns beyond, 
he could barely make out Hilderich trying to throw himself flat 
against the bullhorn closes to him in a fashion that would seem 
rather comical in a different situation. The flaming apparition 
was just passing the last bullhorn before Amonas instinctively 
closed his eyes as if that would make it go away, and that was 
the last thing he saw for what appeared to be eternity.

He only opened his eyes after the terrible sound of the sky 
tearing itself apart with the force of ten thousand cannons or 
more had passed, when he could breathe once more, when the 
scorching heat wave above him was come and gone again in less 
than a flash of thunder.

He thought he had gone deaf, since he could hear himself getting 
up, but the sense of sound slowly returned, though his ears 
ringed like his head had been turned into a living bell. It hurt 
like something had ran him over.

He checked around to see Hilderich, and found him lying on the 
black surface, trying to move or perhaps stand up but he seemed 
quite visibly as shaken as he was himself. But he was alive. 
Whatever that thing was, they were alive.

It had come and gone like a God of thunder, Amonas thought. It 
was strange that he would think in such terms, but he had no 
alternative to express himself by. Whatever all that was, it was 
indeed as they had been nearly smitten by a fiery, God of 
thunder.

He offered his hand to Hilderich to help him up to his feet, 
which Hilderich took without second thought, dazed and 
flabbergasted. As he did so, his gaze was fixed towards the 
direction of the fireball that had nearly killed them. Hilderich 
just stood there transfixed, looking out as if waiting for that 
thing to come around and finish them, as if they had been marked 
for death and this was just their executioner calling.

Amonas looked worried and held Hilderich by his arms, trying to 
attract his attention, calling out his name, asking him what was 
the matter. But Hilderich could only afford a mere flick of his 
gaze, the rest of him steadily fixed on the far side of the 
horizon, accross the row of bullhorns from where the flaming 
thunder had passed over. Hilderich then spoke, mesmerized, grave 
seriousness in his every word:

“That thing is the answer. We have to ride it, somehow. I've 
never thought anything could go that fast. It came and went in 
two blinks of an eye. Can you imagine that? Yet it just passed 
over our heads. Like a tamed star, made to fall forever.”

Amonas looked over the same direction Hilderich was, and then 
looked bitterly back at Hilderich:

“It nearly killed us my friend. And you would ride it? You called 
me a madman before. I think it's time I returned that remark. 
Whatever that was, it's not made of nature and it's not something 
we can use. We have to think of other ways.”

“There are no other ways. There is nothing but wild green lush 
forest with mushrooms and brown ones, and this. These bullhorns. 
All these bullhorns only seem to exist for what just passed 
overhead. It went through and through each of these bullhorns, 
like a cart on rails. Whatever it's headed, it can't be worse 
than this.”

“Still, if all that stands to reason, if this was indeed built 
only to accomodate that huge fireball, what makes you think we 
can ride on it? With it, inside it, whatever would make some kind 
of sense. Don't you see how incredibly powerful it is? What are 
we going to do? Catch it with a rope and hang on to it?”

Hilderich grinned and the effect on Amonas was for the first time 
totally disconcerting, perhaps even chillingly terrible. He 
thought the effect of the fiery ball on Hilderich was the loss of 
his wit and mind. As these thoughts made a deep frown appear on 
his face, Hilderich spoke:

“You thing I'm losing it, don't you. You think I just went crazy, 
broke down, my mind left me forever and so on. But I know we can 
ride on that thing. And I also know that it was designed for that 
specific purpose. Do you want me to explain the reason why or do 
you think you can come to the same conclusion yourself?”

Amonas shoulders sagged, and he took on an expression of pity, 
looking at Hilderich sorrowfully, as it was the last time he saw 
him, as if his mind had parted with him forever and he was 
talking to another man entirely. Hilderich laughed at Amonas' 
look:

“That look on you is actually funny. Doesn't suit you getting 
melodramatic at all. Now, listen: What happened before the 
fireball came zooming in towards us?”

“You told me to duck, lie down. Flat, on the surface.”

“Before that, when I woke you up. What did you notice?”

“I was drowsy from the sleep. Perhaps there was some kind of 
buzzing sound, a rumble.”

“There were two signs - light and sound, indeed more like three 
sounds. There was a buzzing sound a hum in the air, clearly 
audible. There was a rumbling so deep it vibrated our insides. 
And the whole surface was lit up brightly, a bright white light 
from underneath us, so bright it shone brighter than that damn 
sun.”

Hilderich was smiling with what could only be characterised as 
smugness.

“So, you are saying there was a warning? All that was for us to 
know something was coming?”

Amonas sounded like he considered what Hilderich was saying quite 
incredulous.

“Not just us, anyone who might happen to be on the top at that 
particular time. Remember we where asleep, nothing like that came 
rushing down at exactly when we stepped foot up here. It came at 
an inopportune moment, some time later. In fact, these signs woke 
me. And I believe you would have woken as well by yourself even 
if I wasn't there.”

“And why warn us? This thing, whatever it is.”

“Well if it, the building, the bullhorns, this world, the fiery 
thing, wanted us dead, I believe there would have been no 
warning. Unless it's part of a well played sport, it doesn't make 
sense. What does make sense though is that the signs appealed to 
almost every sense: Sight, hearing, touch. Now that I come to 
think of it, I could even taste something like copper in my 
mouth, and smell something too. Not sure I knew the smell, but 
something smelled different alright.”

Hilderich was positively brimming with excitement, his eyes and 
face were lit up and he was actually tipping on his toes.

“You are implying that it was a sign specifically designed to 
warn any man? Whether he be blind, deaf, or even unable to taste 
or smell?”

Amonas had cocked his head sideways in a possible attempt to see 
if there was something messing with Hilderich's head.

“I'm saying exactly that.”

“You are full of surprises, Hilderich. It could stand to reason 
if it didn't sound like too far-fetched to be true.”

“All this is beyond far-fetched, but as I have pointed out in the 
past, here we are.”, said Hilderich and shrugged with his arms 
extended, indicating the scenery around them.

“And what do you suggest we do about that? Surely, we will have 
warning of when another one of those things approaches. And what 
do we do then? Jump at it in an opportune moment?”

Amonas voice had a sneering quality, but he was still maintaing a 
conversational tone.

“Amonas, my radical friend. Have you ever boarded a ship, or a 
wagon train?”

“I cannot see where you are getting at here, but indulge me. Yes, 
yes I have.”, Amonas said with mild annoyance.

“Well then, doesn't always someone announce the arrivals and 
departures?”

“You are again going beyond the imaginable to imply that this 
thing is a vehicle of some sort. That it can actually stop and 
pick us up? Just like that?”

Incredulity seeped from Amonas' every word. It was as if he was 
being told he had suddenly grown a third foot.

“Well more or less, yes. But not like that. We'd need a ticket.”

Hilderich could be seen fumbling inside the pockets of his shirt 
and pants, as if searching for the said ticket.

“What could possibly count as a ticket in this extremely unlikely 
scenario you are proposing?”

“I've been waiting to ask you this when there'd be no point in 
you saying no: I'd have my keystone back now, please.”




  Friend or foe

The corridors of the Disciplinarium were enygmatically silent. 
Lord Ursempyre Remis was escorted by a pair of procastinators, at 
the behest of the Patriarch himself, he had been told. The mere 
thought of that man made him uneasy, and now he had been summoned 
personally. His mind raced with conjecture and possible reasons.

As his steps echoed in the stone floor of the hallways that never 
seemed to end, he thought he had a pretty good idea of the 
Patriarch's intentions. He thought that perhaps the Patriarch 
knew, but he had to know for himself.

See it in my eyes, Ursempyre thought. He would play along his 
role to whatever end might await him. This was a critical point. 
Everything hang in a precarious balance, and this was the push 
that could tip things over either way. He calmed himself, emptied 
his mind and held to just one conviction: 

“I am Lord Ursempyre Remis, Noble Representative, Duke of the 
Fief of Wir and Prefect of Urfall. I serve the Law and the 
Pantheon, I abide to the rulings of the Council”. That would be 
the only thought coursing in his mind, and he would make-believe 
if he had to. And if things came to that, he had prepared for 
other contingencies. He merely hoped there was time enough, that 
things would not be rushed.

They passed through many hallways, some of them exquisitely 
decorated with hand-woven tapestries of a beautiful, delicate, 
and quite extravagant nature. Others were bleak, strictly 
functional and indifferent, not destined to impress or provoke 
awe. Probably hardly ever seen or used.

As if he had not been summoned here officially. Indeed, the 
procastinators seemed eager enough to take him by force if he had 
resisted. Would the Patriarch be so rash? Would he suddenly 
arrest him without good reason? Certainly he had the power to do 
so, but was it to his best interest? How could he ever succeed in 
finding out what drove the Patriarch?

The man was a terrifying mystery, an uncanny wildfire people 
tried to steer away from. The kind of fire that only consumed, 
and never warmed or lit. He was probably the most dangerous man 
Ursempyre could hope to face, even more dangerous than the 
Castigator, who might be a tyrant and heartless man, a man that 
cared for naught but power and its exertion over men, but he was 
still a man.

His motives could be understood, some of his actions anticipated. 
Perhaps he could be reasoned, to the extent that it would seem to 
him to be in his best interests, perhaps offering him a deal he 
could not refuse. But, the Patriarch was a blank, as if totally 
heedless of the circumstances, the dynamics of powerplay and 
indeed the workings of the world around him.

It felt like he had an agenda no one could hope to fathom, an 
agenda he had no intention of altering or suspending. He was 
relentless in whatever pursuit he was involved in, and once you 
laid eyes on him, he looked back. It was an eerie feeling, him 
knowing you were watching. It made one think that this man could 
read your mind with a glance, know your fears, your weaknesses, 
the things that made you cry and the things that made you laugh. 
It was as if he was a chilling, unnatural force that coulde bore 
right into your soul and leave you empty, a walking hulk, your 
mind and soul gone, his own at a mere whim.

Ursempyre shuddered at these thoughts visibly. One of the 
procastinators noticed and sniggered scornfully. Ursempyre turned 
to look at what could easily be a common thug in the streets of 
Pyr, and stared at him intently, a hint of suppressed wrath in 
his gaze. The procastinator lost his grin, and stared away, 
averting his eyes. He would remember that face, Lord Remis 
thought.

Night had only just fallen outside, and servants could be seen 
running about the Disciplinarium, lighting up braziers and 
chandeliers where appropriate. Halls, corridors, and chambers 
were being lit up one by one, staff and officials grinding on at 
whatever kind of work that needed to be done during these times 
of war preparations, work that would probably keep them up all 
night.

They went past the administrative areas, through small warehouses 
and store rooms. Lighting was at a premium in these parts of the 
Disciplinarium, only a few torches spread thin, darkness and 
lighting exchanging places with one another at uneven intervals. 
One of the procastinators paused and unhitched a torch from its 
post to carry along.

They were descending deep down in the lower levels of the 
Disciplinarium, places that Ursempyre had always been loathe to 
visit, for he was aware of the acts usually being performed in 
these levels.

Kept hidden from prying eyes, this was the place where the 
enemies of the state, the sinners and the ones considered 
dangerous and unruly were brought to be chastised and 
enlightened. His face grimaced at the euphemism.

Chastisement and enlightenment came at the price of torn 
fingernails, pryed tongues and flogged backs. And then there were 
those who utterly disappeared, the dungeons of the Disciplinarium 
their last murky, cold abode. Oh, he knew what was coming.

He would be thoroughly interrogated by the Patriarch himself. The 
die was cast, it seemed. There was nothing more he could. He 
hoped he would be able to escape with his life, but if it came to 
that, he had made arrangements. Everything would be put in motion 
if the hours passed without him emerging. It was all planned and 
primed, ready for what was in the end, only inevitable and long 
ago decided.

The uprising would begin. These thoughts seemed bitter and 
morose, unbefitting of his determination, his purpose. He would 
try and beguile the Patriarch, a task that genuinely seemed 
desperate, but he would. And if he failed at that, he would 
endure as long as he could, until his body failed him, until his 
mind and soul were utterly crushed. He had no misgivings, no 
phantasies of standing against the Patriarch for too long.

He knew not what tools of torture he used, but he knew that none 
had been left unbroken. Those that he touched, they all gave up 
in the end. They all talked, they all begged for their lives like 
lesser men, like cornered animals, their instincts making a last 
attempt at salvation. But there was no mercy to be had, no 
humanity in his work. If he could not outsmart him, outplay him 
in a game of his own devising, then he would be gone.

Perhaps later rather than sooner, but he would be done for. All 
that mattered was that the uprising would succeed, that it would 
indeed take them by surprise. And if he perished during that, it 
mattered not. His memory would live on, his legacy and story told 
as part of the Liberation of the Territories.

They would be free, again. Free to live their own lives as they 
saw fit. Damn the Patriarch and the Castigator and all their 
cronies, henchmen and little thugs, and devils, the men that 
willingly gave up their souls in exchange for a whip, or a quill 
or a sword. Damn them all, they would be free.

Having lost himself in thought, he hadn't been aware they had 
descended so very deep. Instead of stone masonry and man-made 
walls, they were now walking amidst tunnels, wide enough for two 
men to walk in, dug in the rock and granite of the Disciplinarium 
hill. These were old, older than the Disciplinarium, carved in a 
time lost from memory, that no annal had recorded.

Though he was privy to most of the workings of the 
Disciplinarium, he had not known the dungeons extended to such a 
depth. He was surprised. He felt wary of what other surprises lay 
in stock.

Soon they reached a grated gate, sentry guards posted in both 
sides of the gate. Where the far side lay, there was little or no 
light from torches or any other kind of lighting. No candles 
either. Simply darkness, eerie and silent, like ink blotting the 
senses.

One of the procastinators nodded to the sentries to leave their 
posts. They would be taking over. The sentries looked at each 
other and knowingly and without protest, question or remark, 
opened the gate, handed their heavy cast iron keys to the 
procastinators and quietly and without further ado left in an 
organized fashion, forming a single file.

One of them looked back and cast a passing gaze at Ursempyre, an 
expression of surprised recognition formed in his face and then 
it was gone, replaced by a fearful, stung furrow. Even the guards 
around this place realised the importance of what would follow. 
The Noble Representative would be tortured, questioned, and 
killed by the Patriarch himself. An ill omen, but who would 
challenge the will of the Law and the Patriarch, Reverent and 
Beloved of the Gods, the Holy Avatar?

One of the men that had led him into the caves, spoke with a 
restrained voice, somewhat confused about whether he should refer 
to Ursempyre as a Lord or as just another lost soul, knowing he 
was at the non-existing mercy of the Patriarch. He chose the 
later, fearful of the walls having ears:

“On you go, in there. To your left. The Patriarch awaits.”

He was then mildly but forcingly pushed, as if he had to be made 
aware that they were there to ensure his concordance and 
cooperation. Or club him unconscious and fetch him themselves in 
front of the Patriarch, if needs be.



Ursempyre's steps were measured and slow, but steady and 
unwavering. He steeled himself for the confrontation, muscles 
tensing and relaxing in quick succession. He was as ready as he 
could be, he thought.

The cave seemed to be hollowed out artificially, swaths of 
incandescent light pouring out from the large orifice he was 
instructed the Patriarch was awaiting his presence.

As he entered the chamber, the intense light made him squint 
reflexively, but his eyes adjusted. It seemed as if light was 
pouring out of some strange, tall, glass columns that seemed to 
extend beyond the floot and the ceiling of the chamber, as if 
actually grown out of the rock itself.

Ursempyre's interest was at once piqued by what he was seeing all 
around him: Four large glass columns like huge rods brimming with 
light, seemingly supporting the tall, wide rocky chamber. The 
Patriarch was standing with his back turned to Ursempyre right 
amid the four columns, his bald scalp glistening under the 
blueish-white light of the columns, gossamer shadows of hisself 
cast in the shape of a cross across the rough, uneven, rocky 
floor. Small wet brown lime stone intentations and juttings with 
tiny spots of shadow dotted the ground. A faint humming noise 
echoed faintly throughout the chamber, which was otherwise dead 
silent.

Ursempyre was drawn into the scenery, taken by surprise, but not 
overwhelmed. He felt curious. So much more as to what the 
intentions of the Primarch were. He had been expecting a torture 
chamber with a multitude of tools and instruments. Instead, he 
was being shown something very few people, if ever, became privy 
to. Perhaps the folk tales about the Ancients and the Curator's 
ramblings were not all for nought. But then again, what reason 
did the Patriarch have to reveal such a place to him?

His thoughts were interrupted by the sly, surreptitious voice of 
the Patriarch, which broke the silence of the chamber, sounding 
as if it resonating with the columns and the rock walls, each 
adding to its effect:

“These are plasma conductors. Part of the energy grid of the 
Disciplinarium. Basically I barely use most of the amenities 
involved. I consider myself adjusted to my surroundings. I find 
the use of servants most to my liking.”

Ursempyre frowned quizically at the Patriarch's words. He could 
neither understand exactly what he was telling him, or more 
importantly why. As always, scripture in High Helican decorated 
its hem discreetly. He didn't look resplendent or intimidating. 
The Patriarch turned to face Ursempyre, hands neatly hidden 
inside the folds of his robes, simple and utilitarian yet finely 
crafted from quality cloth. It was as if he sounded sincere for 
the first time when he spoke again:

“I see that you are taking all this in your stride. I'd expected 
as much. It will make things easier, I suppose.”, indicating with 
his eyes the glass-like columns of light he had called plasma 
conductors.

Ursempyre was still looking at the columns when he asked the 
Patriarch in a straightforward manner, one that almost demanded 
an answer even though he knew he was in no position to make any 
worthy demands:

“Why am I here? I am the Noble Representative. I demand that you 
extend some courtesy and respect to such a person of significant 
office.”, Ursempyre's tone of voice authoritative and steadfast, 
even though a trained ear could feel it frail at the edges, an 
evidently great determination holding it together barely at the 
seams. The Patriarch sounded amused when he replied:

“Would you keep on performing on a stage when all the viewers had 
left? I could admire you for your dedication, but I generally 
hold fools in low esteem. I suggest you, ahm, revise your way of 
thinking, Lord Remis. While you still can.”

“Is this some sort of threat? I came here of my own free will. I 
have nothing to hide, your Reverence. I insist you make your 
intentions clear before long. Whatever they may be, I will be a 
faithful servant and abide by the Law.”

Ursempyre's voice had deep, grave undertones etched in it. He 
meant to come across as serious and truthful, yet unfazed, not 
just a lackey or one of their goons to be simply expected to obey 
unquestioningly. He wanted the Patriarch to know that he wasn't 
terrified by the Patriarch. Even though in his gut he knew that 
was a lie.

The Patriarch stifled a laugh in mere disbelief, a terrible smile 
forming in his lips:

“Is that so, Lord Ursempyre Remis? It almost always has to be 
that way, hasn't it? Please, have a seat.”, and before he could 
finish his sentence an ornate chair appeared out of thin air, as 
if it had been there always, but was simply invisible to the eye.

It was supremely decorated with fine leather and silky surfaces, 
girdles of gold and silver on the armrests. In concert, an even 
more ornate and large chair with a large backside, plush with red 
velvet and a green granite girder appeared behind the Patriarch, 
with a similarly decorated desk, its surface a hard green-veined 
black marble.

It seemed preposterous, but it looked like as if even more 
extravagant events were about to unfold, so Ursempyre decided to 
let the Patriarch put on his own show, and he would go on with 
his theatricals as far as possible.

The logical part of his brain cried out in anguish at the 
impossibilities unraveling all around him, and wanted to stop and 
cry out for something that could explain even an iota of these 
tricks. They had to be tricks he thought, some sort of show to 
cow him, bewilder him.

The other part of his mind, the determined one, just ignored what 
was thrown at him and focused at one thing: Making it out of here 
alive, for starters. And then, he thought, I can work something 
out of the rest.

The Patriarch realised he had frozen in place, his mind stung by 
the sudden impossible appearance of the furniture, and beckoned 
him once more to seat:

“Please, Lord Remis. You seem to be woolgathering. Does not our 
conversation appeal to your standards? Perhaps, some refreshment 
is in order as well?”

With that last phrase, a plain wooden jug of wine appeared on the 
Patriarch's desk, alongside with two cups, one slightly chipped 
on its rim, the other visibly older, the wood stained and 
discoloured. The Patriarch added while waving one hand 
dismissively:

“You'll hopefully excuse the quality of the cups and jugs. I try 
to dispense with pomp and luxury wherever applicable. In essence, 
I am quite a simple man. If only you could see that.”

Ursempyre was still dumbfounded, not as much because of the 
Patriarch ability to instantly and at will conjure items of his 
liking, but more so because of what he was saying, or trying to 
imply. The Patriarch was not, in any way, a simple man. He was 
being flippant, mocking him in the process. Ursempyre managed to 
speak though, as if a spell forced upon him had been broken:

“This ability of yours, it does not scare me, Patriarch. The Holy 
Avatar must indeed have the blessings of the Gods, why not some 
of their power?”

“Yes, that does make sense doesn't it?Brilliant on my part, I 
would say.”, the Patriarch looked almost gleeful. He continued on 
to ask Ursempyre:

“What does scare Ursempyre? What is it you really fear, if it's 
not me? After all you've heard or seen, you know what I'm capable 
of. Would I like to do that to you, Lord Remis? Would you force 
my hand?”

“I have nothing of which to be accused of, Patriarch. I am a 
faithful..”

“You are a constant reminder of my failing and nothing more!”, 
the Patriarch burst into a fit of rage, sending the jug crashing 
against a glass pillar, red wine spilling all over, running down 
the glass in waves. The cups were lying on the desk, one rolling 
on its side back and forth.

Ursempyre thought he had been exposed, and all the niceties had 
now evaporated. He steeled himself mentally, closing his eyes and 
thinking of happier, earlier times. His muscles relaxed. He was 
waiting for a hammering blow. Nothing happened any time soon. The 
Patriarch drew the his chair, and sagged on it, as if exhausted 
from copious effort. He flexed his hands and crossed his palms, 
knuckles pointing upward, almost as if in prayer. At length, he 
sighed, and then spoke in a raspy, tired voice, more suited to a 
broken old man rather than the Patriarch, the Holy Avatar of the 
Gods.

“I'm tired of being reminded of my failings, tired of games I 
guess. But I'm not willing to lose, not after all the time I've 
spent. Do you understand that, Lord Ursempyre Remis, Noble 
Representative? Can you, really? Even if I showed you, could you 
fathom? Or would your lesser, weak mind break down from 
hopelessness? Could you indeed ride on the wave of apocalypse 
that would follow, Ursempyre? I have to pity, hate, and envy you, 
Ursempyre. You and your people. But this has to end as well.”

Ursempyre was progressively more and more mystified at what the 
Patriarch was saying. Again, he noticed, it wasn't the trick show 
and the flashiness, the strangeness of what was happening. It was 
the Patriarch himself that was doing it, twisting reality, 
violating normalcy.

He was acting out of character, for one thing. It was as if he 
was trying to make some point, but had not done so ever before in 
his life and was unable to make himself understood in human 
terms. He was somehow circumnavigating the point in question, 
never directly touching it, uttering generalities and giving 
cryptical hints, as if his annotations alone sufficed.

Ursempyre hated that quality in a man, evasiveness, mucking about 
rather than doing or saying what one had in mind. Just tell me 
what you really want to you raving old wolf, he thought to 
himself, before asking the Patriarch directly:

“What do you mean? Do you mean the rebellion? The kinsfolk will 
rise and cast you down, rightfully claim their right to freedom. 
And if we shall fail, we will give our lives willingly. And I 
will be the first one to do so, if needs be. Strike me down if 
you must, if that's the reason I'm here for. Spare me the 
theatricals, and the mirror show as well.”

Hilderich words came out sharp and proud. He managed to even 
surprise himself with his clarity and aboveboard voice and 
manner. His face was taut, he felt the veins in his throat throb 
with every pulse. He felt relieved his mask was cast off, primed 
and ready for everything that the Patriarch could throw at him.

He wasn't thinking clearly now, he knew, but he imagined he'd go 
for his throat and neck, possibly try to snap it or strangle him 
with his bare hands. His determination had walked him through 
from an innocent noble Lord to a hot-blooded rebel in mere 
moments. The Patriarch's answer stunned him with its simple 
ruthlessness and unprecedented audacity:

“Do you wish to become the Castigator of the Outer Territories?”, 
he said, idly checking his fingernails for blemishes and dirt.

Ursempyre frowned instinctively, as if his hearing had failed 
him, and blinked a few times before feeling a complete idiot that 
was unable to constrain his physical reactions. He managed to ask 
the Patriarch, his voice rippling with incredulity and disbelief:

“Become.. The Castigator?”, and then he broke down in laughter, 
his hands behind his head, as if failing to grasp the joke behind 
the Patriarch's words, but still finding it funny enough.

The Patriarch reached out for a small goblet of wine, its 
contents sloshing as if it had just been poured. In fact, it had 
just appeared on his desk. He sipped some wine, all the while 
Lord Remis quieted down, his laughter made still by the 
Patriarch's lack of an answer, physical or verbal. At length, 
after seeming to savour the wine properly, like a man who found 
meaning in the tasteful little joys of life, like a good wine, he 
said with more authority, gravity weighing his words, the rocky 
chamber echoing them, magnifying the effect:

“I know you do not take me for a fool, Ursempyre. You must know I 
do not either. I simply find that you are ultimately, a man of 
your time. But unimpressively, you're not a man quite ahead of 
it. Nevertheless, as things stand, I offer you the sovereignty of 
the Outer Territories and the office of Castigator.”

The Patriarch had risen from his seat, hands behind his back, and 
was very slowly pacing around the columns, his form every once in 
a while disappearing behind a blaze of blue and white light, each 
time a sliver of his figure and face appearing grotesque and 
malformed behind the glass column, as if it had the ability to 
see behind the facade of the Patriarch. Ursempyre felt suddenly 
naked, as he had been bared against his will, but he had not 
protested. He felt ashamed, for not erupting in anger, as well as 
for finding out that in the end he was so transparent.

“You are wondering if I can read your mind. Well, perhaps I can, 
but I'm only actually guessing what you must be thinking. I have 
knack of being spot on though.”, the Patriarch grinned viciously 
before adding:

”You're thinking if I had known about your people, your 
organization right from the start. If I know about your 
rebellious plans, the killing hour. I'll indulge your 
inquisitiveness, for the sake of argument. Perhaps, you'll rarely 
hear me admit it, I have to revel in my superiority. It's an 
obnoxious trait, being such a snob. If you knew me better you'd 
find I couldn't help being otherwise. But I digress.”

The Patriarch paused and put a hand to his chin, stroking his 
beard lightly, a finger to his lips, as if he was searching for 
his next words, engrossed in thought, careful of what exactly to 
say. Ursempyre was transfixed, at a loss for words. He thought he 
shouldn't be doing this, he shouldn't be even listening to this 
devil. His heart told him to try and rip this human terror apart, 
for everyone's sake. His mind told him to stay his wrath, and 
listen. He was being told things he would never know otherwise. 
Thing he might use if he came out of this alive. The Patriarch 
resumed what was beginning to look like a monologue, or rather, 
an explaining of sorts:

“You'll have to excuse my earlier outburst. These are trying 
times, even for me. I have already admit to two things I consider 
weaknesses, dear Lord Remis. You should do well to think that 
this is not only a rare occurence, but rather unique. I might be 
lying, indeed, but what difference would it make to you?”

He had made a full round of the columns, and he was now standing 
in front of Ursempyre, his desk behind his back. All this time 
Ursempyre had not moved from the place where he had been left 
standing. The Patriarch motioned with a nod that he should be 
seated, but Ursempyre declined in kind with an almost 
imperceptible shake of his head, his gaze fixed at the Patriarch 
at all times.

“Very well, if you insist.”, said the Patriarch and the chair 
blinked away in the same logic defying manner that it had 
manifested. The Patriarch went on:

“This is a unique offer. For reasons you will come to understand 
in due time, I'm offering you rule of these lands. Of course, it 
will be mostly in name only. As is the case now, you will mostly 
be a figurehead of sorts, a leading personality.

As always, I will be the real Law and effective ruler of these 
lands, and you will be acting as my proxy in setting policy. Of 
course, in all the lesser matters, like economy, judicious 
activities, trade and the like, you will be left alone to your 
devices.

My immediate concern though lies elsewhere: This rebellion you're 
planning, is happening at an ipportune time. I do have some 
matters of urgency to attend to, and you appear to have set up 
quite a formidable and perhaps effective as well as skilled 
fighting force.

I really cannot be bothered to lose precious little time over 
suppressing what will be, in the end, a failed rebellion. It 
would be most prudent and cost-effective if we avoided all the 
unnecessary bloodshed and came to some sort of agreement, between 
me and you, the newly appointed Castigator.”

Ursempyre tried to take in the Patriarch's words, but he felt 
unable to. It was an overwhelming thought. There were so many 
questions and possibilities going through his mind. Would he 
actually consider such a proposal? Did have any merit? Would the 
Patriarch keep true to his word? Was the Castigator really that 
powerless against the Patriarch? Then, what chance would he stand 
against Patriarch once he felt like he had served his purpose? If 
he was so powerful, why did he need him? Why not crush the 
rebellion alltogether? Why did he need him? What were his 
limitations? An bloodless uprising, but to what a future would it 
lead? This rotten system would not go away. The Patriarch, and 
the Council, and all the tyranny would still be around.

No. He felt dirty, almost soiled that he had even began to 
consider such an offer, that he actually tried to put it on a 
scale and weigh their future against a parody of one. He had 
decided. He would not become a willing pawn.

That last temptation, the easy way out, a bloodless shadow of a 
victory, a postponed defeat and utterly, treason. He had not 
thought himself as a fanatical rebel up until now. He had always 
thought that he was, as ever, the pragmaticist.

That was the quality in him which had led him to believe that 
change should occur, even if it meant full-scale rebellion, and 
ultimately war and possible annihilation of those who would carry 
the weight of the change, a change worth dying for.

He had studied as much of history as possible, he had seen behind 
the veil of religious propaganda and dogma. He weighed and 
balanced everything and he believed he could prove, by way of 
reasoning, hard facts and certain numbers, that this was a 
stagnant situation. A situation where nothing new and worthwhile 
would ever arise, a steady circle of people giving birth, and 
dying, too busy and occupied with the endless toils of life and 
too frightened of losing what little breath they had been spared.

Too frightened to lose the smell of cinnamon breadpies, and the 
laughter of the young and innocent children, before they too 
became in essence obedient slaves, aspiring to long life of toil 
and harsh, bitter pain and misery, as if it was the only right 
thing to do.

And people like him, the Nobles, would praise the Gods and their 
luck for been born a step above the simpletons that tilled their 
fields, worked their mines and brought them wine. As well as 
being more than careful not to upset anyone, lest they end up 
with dirt on their hands and sweat on their brows.

Fear. Fear ruled them first and foremost above all. Fear 
misguided them and made them wake up from their dreamless sleep, 
and be happy they'd just live another die. It had sickened him, 
when he realised it for the first time.

They were prisoners of fear, all of them, from the nobles to the 
scum in the streets of Pyr. Every last one of them, all they knew 
their whole lives was fear. It was time they learned something 
more of life. Go a little further down the road.

He was curious to see what they could accomplish once they were 
free of fear. All of them, free to think, and act, and hope, and 
dream. He had a sudden flash of recollection right at that hour.

He had gone fishing with his grandfather, near a lake in the late 
summer, when he was still a boy curling up in his mother's bosom 
to sleep at night. His grandfather had showed him how to hook the 
bait on his line, but when he had tried it himself, he had gotten 
stung. He had cried in anguish, pain, and fear, but his 
grandfather had laughed out with all his heart and had said to 
him, quite unperturbed by his discomfort:

“It's only a sting, Urse. It's not going to kill you. Unless 
you're a fish.”

He wasn't a fish, and he wasn't just going to give up now. He was 
Lord Ursempyre Remis and he was about to change everything, even 
if he ultimately failed. But first he had to go through this 
immediate predicament, and the smartest way to do that was to let 
the Patriarch think he's won. In any case he couldn't think of 
many ways of forcing his way out.

Even if he succedeed in killing him right here and now, he 
doubted he could make it out alive. So, thinking of bait and 
fish, he was determined to see the Patriarch outwitted, 
outmatched in his own game. Deception.

“You seem to be thinking hard into the matter, Lord Remis. As I 
had anticipated, you are taking this seriously, and weighing 
your, very few I should remind you, options. So, what will it be 
Ursempyre Remis, will you vainly turn brother against brother and 
father against son? Will you have all that blood in your hands? 
End it before it even starts.”

Ursempyre's reverie was broken, and upon hearing the Patriarch 
responded with a burst, his words were spat from his mouth rather 
than spoken:

“Lies! Deceit! You would have me believe all that just so you can 
bring the Kinsfolk out and pick us off one by one. And still, if 
you wouldn't do that, if you only care for things to remain as 
they were, what will you do once I am named Castigator? Will you 
change the Law? Will there be reform? Will the people achieve 
some measure of freedom, of independence? Will your Gods, show 
mercy? Inspire prosperity and progress? Will the people enjoy 
better lives? Will your grasp upon them become lighter? Or will 
you squeeze and squeeze until not an iota of strength or resolve 
remains? Will you see the error of your ways and let the people 
free? Or will you keep making the same offer to other men, again, 
and again, and again?”

The Patriarch remained calm, and seemed unhintered in his efforts 
to force Ursempyre's submission, or his hand:

“I think you've misunderstood my intentions. This is not a 
political bargain. Indeed any bargain of sorts. It is merely a 
possibility I am willing to entertain, because it suits me. 
Perhaps I haven't been too clear, and at the same time I have 
misjudged your intelligence and powers of reasoning and 
extrapolation. I am not sharing power, or recognising my 
decisions and rule as 'mistakes'. You will not be handed real 
authority, and yes the people will continue to be oppressed as 
you put it, until I deem otherwise. You have no real lever 
against me, apart from certain time constraints that I must keep 
in mind. In other words, I am offering you a much more civilised 
way out, because I haven't got the time to grind your puny 
rebellious followers into oblivion. Is that much understood now? 
Am I coming across? Can you reestablish the true position you are 
in now? Can you fathom that in my greater scheme of things you 
and your 'people' are a nuisance I want to deal with efficiently 
and move on? Or are you that infatuated with your pet idea of a 
free world that you have been completely cut off from reality? 
Perhaps you might think that can all act in everyway you feel 
like, that chaos can somehow lead to wonder. That it all sorts 
itself out in the end, doesn't it? How preposterous a notion! I 
can only find it natural to nurture such gross misconceptions 
since you are little more than infants, barely able to stand on 
their own two feet. How could you possible know the truth of the 
cosmos? You still think of the stars as prickles of light, some 
of them falling down as they die. You would know real fear and 
awe when you saw the death of a star, I can assure you of that. 
But you still would not believe me. As you do not believe me now, 
thinking I am playing you like a fool, tightening and loosing an 
invisible line, as if you were a fish caught on my lure.”

Ursempyre involuntarily flinched at the uncanny remark and was 
terrified at the thought the Patriarch was actually reading his 
mind. If that was true, he had been a fool from the start, all 
his hopes now laid to waste. He tried to compose himself, not to 
allow any more of his fear to show itself. The Patriarch was 
grinning malevontly when he said:

“I told you, I am not reading your mind. I could, but then I 
would have to kill you, and that would not expedite my goals. I 
have already devoted enough of time in this affair, what should 
have been a simple case of a 'yes' or 'no' has evolved into a 
time-consuming situation that only serves to further aggravate me 
as well as stall me, as you might be thinking is in your best 
interest. I might also be giving away details and information you 
would never even have dreamt of, but it will matter little 
because if you live you'll become my new Castigator, and if you 
die, well, dead men can't talk. Not that the rumours have hurt me 
much over the years. It seems that people will only believe what 
they are willing to. Suspension of disbelief can be a powerful 
weapon. But I digress. You make me so restless I cannot help 
myself. But seriously, what will it be? My patience is at an end. 
Whatever you want to happen next, tell me now.”

Ursempyre's face was stern, contorted from the anxiety. He 
realised perspiration was running down his temples for some time. 
He had to make a leap of faith, and trust in himself like never 
before. Still, he knew he was walking in a territory far more 
dangerous than he could have imagined from beforehand. The 
Castigator, another pawn. These weird abilities of the Patriarch. 
Like the stories of Old, before the Pantheon. Folk tales they had 
seemed, but now they were inescapably real, made manifest before 
his eyes. He did not know their true nature, and was loathe to 
find out. Still, why was he being offered this now? Should he not 
refuse? What made the Patriarch so certain of his superiority? 
What was te true extent of his power? Why had he not crushed them 
at their inception, while they were still a handful, weak, their 
organisation still a dream, a footnote of history and legend 
brought back from oblivion, nothing but a speck against the power 
the Council held all over all? He had to find out before he 
plunged in a path thay may well damn him and all those who 
believed in him. So he asked him directly:

“Why should I accept your offer? What makes you certain, what can 
you do to us that you have not done already? Haven't you stifled 
growth, education, trade, economy? Isn't almost everything under 
your control, in one form or another? Except perhaps the air we 
breath. Even the earth and the water, so indispensable to life 
itself, has become a commodity, something to be sold and 
acquired, according to your sick whims and desires. Even though 
that has held true for generations, we are willing to give our 
lives to stop this. And believe me we will, unquestioningly, 
unflinchingly. How will you break that resolve, I ask you? Since 
you are the one that has caused this, its your Law and your rule 
that has brought things too far. What good will the vanishing 
tricks do? Will you just vanish when the crowds of free men will 
be running after you? Demanding nothing less than your head? Or 
will you put on another light show like the one around me, hiping 
that the people you consider animals will be dazed, so sublimed 
that they'll beg you for forgiveness for their sins? Tell me, oh 
Holy Avatar, why should we capitulate?”

“I never thought you were capable of such blandishment, dear 
Ursempyre. Yes, it is marvellous they way you people have been 
grinded down to little more than mere animals. I must admit I 
sometimes feel a certain measure of pride at what I have achieved 
here. As for your other question, I believe that you should be 
careful not to confuse what you have seen here with the true 
extend of my powers. This is not a show I put on for you 
specifically, Lord Remis. It is merely an extension of courtesy, 
in good faith. I simply meant to cast off my mask, to create an 
honest, conversational atmosphere, in which I could nurture a 
more direct relationship with you, vis-a-vis. I simply showed you 
that I am not the man you might have thought I was, but I am far 
more resourceful, and much more dangerous than what you think. 
Tell me, Ursempyre, have you heard of Shan the Traitor? The 
terrible Betrayer? And the Day of Redemption?”

“I have. It is supposed to be a part of history that has been 
wiped clean. I believe it is a myth, an insidious lie spread 
purposefully to disheart, disencourage any who would even think 
about opposing you, suppress their anger with fear and awe, with 
a promise of terrible retribution and divine wrath. An angel of 
the Gods who would come down from above and wipe us all in one 
sweep, one fell blow? Is that what you would have me believe? 
That you have that kind of power? That you will pray to your Gods 
and they will crush us like ants? Is your purpose to turn me, 
Patriarch, or make me laugh?”

“Yes, it would stand to reason to think of it as a mere lie, a 
fabricated tale, another piece of propaganda, but I the truth is 
much more simple. I do possess that kind of power. Let me 
demonstrate.”

The Patriarch took a step back, and extended his arms. He took on 
a solemn expression, as if praying or concentrating deeply. A 
strange smell assaulted Ursempyre's nostrils. It seemed to 
emanate from the Patriarch, as far as Ursempyre could tell. A 
smell that reminded him of metal against metal, the smell of 
blacksmith's shop but he all he could see was that the Patriarch 
was now a bit taller than before. No, he thought, he is not 
taller. Something's wrong here, his mind voiced with concern. He 
noticed tha Patriarch's feet were no longer touching the ground. 
Then, faint bluish crackles of light like tiny lightning's and 
sparks of light coursed through the Patriarch, his bald scalp 
having taken on an eerie sheen, as if it was suddenly a shiny 
metal mirror. The Patriarch grinned and uttered in High Helican:

“Behold, the Holy Avatar.”

With that, the Patriarch tensed and a bright shiny aura began to 
emanate from him, as if turned on suddenly. Then his robes were 
drawn in, tightened around his body as if instantly shrunk. They 
visibly outlightened his figure, and Ursempyre was surprised once 
more to see that such a body did not belong to an old man. It was 
an immaculate body, perfectly carved as if it was a statue, a 
penultimate monument to the human body, its musculature detailed 
beyond any artisan's capabilities and talent. It was the body a 
demi-God, exuding awe by sight alone. Tha Patriarch's face began 
to twist and reshape itself as if it was made of water or 
mercury, all the facial characteristics turning into a pool 
engulfed in bright light as fire was about to scorch it. And all 
the while he could see the grin of the Patriarch, even though his 
face was no longer there. His mind reeled from the sight before 
him. It was true then, this was a monster beyond comparison. the 
stories and legends were true. And the Day of Redemption had 
happened. And it was him. It was him all along. Even before, all 
those years past. It had always been him. The realisation left 
him wide-eyed struggling for breath. The robes around the 
Patriarch were absorbed into his flesh, which was now a rippling 
pool of molten metal, incandescent with a fiery aura around it, 
levitating a few feet above the ground, resplendant and regal in 
its unique and terrible form. At length, this figure spoke at 
him, with no visible source for the voice:

“I hate to show off but you forced my hand. I would really hate 
to raze a town just to convince you, Ursempyre. I believe you 
would hate to be the reason of such a slaughter. Do I have your 
attention now?”

Ursempyre could not know whether he was hearing the voice through 
his ears or simply in his mind. How little it mattered now, he 
thought. He only managed to nod, still staring at the majestic 
being in front of him.

“Please say it Ursempyre. Do you capitulate? Will you become my 
Castigator?”, said the perfect, floating fiery figure of the 
Patriarch.

Ursempyre felt shocked, miniscule, unimportant. They were against 
a being of unimaginable power, not based solely on its 
manipulations, schemes, and outright terror practices. This was 
something else entirely, an terrible force. A demon that left you 
mesmerized in awe. Why couldn't this be a mere show, he thought. 
How could he have lived so long ago? How could he have brought 
such destruction by himself alone? How did he know he wasn't just 
lying, as was his usual practice?

He knew. When he saw him change into that thing, he saw. He felt 
its corruption overwhelm him, its malevolence flow around him, 
its power beaming right through him. It was true. He didn't know 
how exactly, but it was true. He could wipe them out if he needed 
too, if he wanted to. he did not believe that thing could be 
hurt, not in any real sense. He did not know whether the 
Patriarch himself was still vulnerable, but he now believed this 
was his true form, and the old man a mere charade he found more 
practical. Or perhaps it was another one of his whims. It didn't 
matter, this was inescapable. He had no options now. All he had 
been planning was for naught. He would play along. But he would 
not give up. No, he knew they were at a disadvantage, but that 
was now a blessing. Had they went on with their plan, they would 
have been culled like sheep. It was almost as if he was trying to 
give them a warning, a second chance. He would capitulate he 
would accept, but only for now. Only until he knew what was going 
on this world of his, what was the truth behind all this, who was 
this being that had ruled over them for untold years with iron 
and steel, and whip and truncheon? He'd do what he could, and 
perhaps find a way to bring him down. The others, though, who had 
not seen what he had seen, would they believe him? Or would they 
just curse him as the traitor he would seem to have become? He 
could do little about that. he only hoped they'd forgive him 
before his end. That somehow this would workout. He turned to 
face the fiery figure, and looking at were its eyes should have 
been, managed to utter levelly: 

“I will. I only do this because I now believe you when you say 
lives will be lost to no avail. Always remember that. Always 
remember that I only do this as a lesser evil, nothing more. I 
will only serve my people, not you, ever. If I find a way to turn 
against you, I will do so, without hesitation.”

“Yes, indeed. I'm sure you will. Now that we finally settled this 
matter, I'll issue the relevant orders and perform the Ceremony 
of Kyryksis. Naturally, once you ascend to office you will also 
issue a statement for your men to stand down, and reconcile their 
grievances, as reforms are sure to be made and an arrangement has 
been agreed upon for a gradual transition into a free society. I 
believe the majority will accept such a turn of events with 
relief. No one likes dying. Except for a few fools that will 
probably follow your plan to the end anyway. Nothing important 
that my people will not be able to handle. Congratulations on a 
well-informed decision, Lord Remis.”

The Patriarch returned to his human form in mere moments, the 
transition this time a lot quicker and much less dramatic. He 
offered his hand grinning profusely, but Ursempyre did not accept 
it. He rather looked at the Patriarch's hand with boiling 
contempt and disgust. The Patriarch insisted, the hand still 
extended for a handshake, and said:

“Please, Lord Remis. I only rarely bite people. It is a simple 
handshake. Once you become the Castigator, you will be required 
to kiss my hand. For the sake of appearances, naturally.”

Ursempyre's face was tense, as if carved of stone. His equally 
hard glare at the Patriarch, his eyes like fiery pinpricks of 
unyielding light, indicated that he was expending huge amounts of 
patience and self-restrain in order for him not to lunge at the 
Patriarch right then and there. But he would bide his time. With 
obvious reluctance and slow, deliberate motions that brought to 
mind a man in pain, he managed to shake hands with the Patriarch. 
He felt like he now carried a stain he could never wash off. He 
paused in thought, and at length asked the Patriarch who was 
about to call out to the guards:

“Tell me one more thing. Why didn't you make me do it? Why didn't 
you force me, with some of those bewildering powers of yours?”

The Patriarch paused in his step, turned to look at Ursempyre and 
smiled brightly before replying:

“Oh, my dear Castigator Remis, that would feel like cheating, 
wouldn't it?”




  All in good time

A tall, bleak man in a uniform approached a couple of soldiers 
that were standing over a fire, with a kettle on top of it 
brewing something with an uncharacteristic, though quite 
off-putting smell. They were sitting on some sacks laden with 
what must have been rice or wheat, having a smoke, sharing a pipe 
of what one knowledgeable in the art of uwe smoking could make 
out to be stale uwe. That is only when every once in a while the 
wind blew off the stench coming from the kettle. They were 
unaware of the tall man coming their way, since their backs were 
turned to him, and they were admiring the ships loading and 
unloading their cargos in the distance of the harbor, the suns 
setting in quick succession, painting the sea mauve and bloody 
red, the sails casting their last shadows for the day. Their calm 
reverie was broken by a harsh, raspy voice:

“What's in that kettle? Smells worse than the cow dung you're 
smoking. I can only imagine you're smoking it to cover that 
gods-awful stench you're giving off. Last time you bathed, it 
must've been when the midwife rinsed off your mother's blood.”

One of the two soldiers turned around and with a passing look of 
small surprise offered the pipe to the tall man, inspite of him 
sounding provocatively belittling. The other man remained 
indifferent, his head seemed to follow a flock of seabirds in the 
distance, swooping over the sea, probably hunting fish, or 
perhaps idling away their time, just as they were. The tall man 
was now standing with one foot on a stack of sacks. He took the 
proferred pipe and took a quaff of smoke, savoured it before 
exhaling slowly, and then spoke to the two soldiers:

“Truly, worse than cow dung. I'd have you flogged but I'd be 
wasting the procastinators' time on some thickset pachyderm 
hides.”

The one soldier that still hadn't turned to look at the man and 
was gazing at the harbor almost sleepily, asked him, his tone of 
voice revealing a genuine ignorance:

“What's a pachyderm, dekar?”

“From what I'm told your wife for one, and perhaps your mother 
too.”

With that, both the dekar and the soldier who offered him the 
pipe laughed heartily. The other soldier seemed taken aback, 
shuffled himself on the sack uneasily and responded with some 
bitterness and a childish tone:

“Well you can have your laughs for dinner, cause I ain't serving 
you no Mott's famous Langarfan stew tonight.”

The dekar, their squad leader, went wide-eyed in apparent 
disbelief, a wide grin on his face:

“That's the stench? Lanra.. Langar.. Whatever, that's supposed to 
be stew? Mott, save us the trouble and run us through with a 
sword right here were we sit. I'd wager it's faster and less 
painfull for my innards. Can't speak for Lanris here, he seems to 
be brave or stupid enough to eat that snot of yours. I think it's 
because he's stupid.”

“Let's just say it's an acquired taste, dekar.”

“Where did you acquire it then? The swamps?”

The dekar broke in laughter once again, but this time Lanris did 
not accompany him.

“No jokes dekar. It is an acquired taste. It's taken me the 
better part of four years now to finally begin to enjoy Mott's 
cooking. So don't spoil it. As they say, dig in or get out.”

“There'll be no digging in for dekar Pirru tonight. Or ever. I'll 
leave those lowly menial tasks to you two men. Or what remotely 
resembles men. Ha.”

Dekar Pirru shook his head, grinning at the same time. Mott was 
now stirring his broth with a thick wooden stick that just seemed 
to be lying around handily. Lanris was putting some fresh uwe in 
his pipe. Twilight was upon them, the smoke from their kettle 
barely visible now. Dekar Pirru seemed suddenly engrossed with 
thought, his gaze stuck on the boiling kettle, eyes seemingly out 
of focus. Lanris took notice, waved his hand to check if indeed 
the dekar was in touch with his surroundings, and found out that 
was not the case. He said with a taste of lack of conviction:

“Dekar?Dekar Pirru?”

The dekar slowly turned his gaze to Lanris and made a sort of 
grumbling side, eyes focused again and brow unfurrowed now. 
Lanris continued:

“You seemed lost in thought. What's on your mind? New ways to 
drill us to death? Make us more miserable? Take away our cir 
rations? What is it that's had you day dreaming?”

“Hmm? I'm not daydreaming, mind you. Plain old bothers, that's 
all. This mobilisation. Doesn't seem right. Not to me at least. 
You think this is all well and dandy?”

The dekar was standing upright again, arms folded, his sword 
sheath dangling about his belt, his expression a bit sour. Lanris 
on the other hand seemed quite relaxed, resting on the sacks 
nonchalantly, seemingly more concerned about the serving time of 
Mott's stew. He took a draught of smoke from his pipe, before 
answering his dekar without turning to look at him: 

“Not my place to tell, dekar. I just sharpen my sword, fill my 
pipe and gulp down what Mott fancies each time. Though his menu 
is kind of repetitive. It must be the fourth time in a row we're 
having stew.”, said Lanris with a mixed feeling of resignation 
and indifference.

Mott interjected Lanris abruptly, as if he was chiding him:

“Fifth time in a row. I'm getting us some karch tomorrow. Makes 
fine soup. You can piss off if you don't like karch soup, rummage 
about the camp. Perhaps you'll find a nice boot to munch on.”

Lanris leaned over and slapped Mott on the shoulder jovially. He 
was smiling when he said:

“That'll be fine Mott. Karch's soup's fine. Don't get jumpy on 
me. If I can eat the sludge they serve on marches, I can sure as 
hell eat some of your cooking. It's not a grey ooze and that's 
enough in my book to make it gourmet.”

Lanris intoned his last word with a certain character and an 
outlandish accent that made everyone laugh, especially Mott whose 
sullen mood was eased, and was now up on his feet, stirring his 
stew with a certain air of culinary dexterity. Around them, more 
campfires could be seen, soldiers like them who were about to 
cook something of their own, usually broths of wheat or barley 
which were the main staple food the army provided.

They were about to relax from the exercises of the day, as well 
as their other various duties. Some would eat something quick 
before heading off for sentry and patrol duty, and some would 
rest their aching muscles, have a pipe and something to fill 
their bellies, and sleep heavily until the next morning. 

Some would have made their own arrangements concerning food, 
perhaps going out of their way to procure some meat, either by 
hunting, or by making certain trades, sometimes of a dubious 
nature. Most of the soldiers that did so, traded wine for meat or 
eggs. Wine and spirits were strongly forbidden, but vinegar was 
allowed to be carried, as it was a proven way of cleaning up 
wounds as well as used in the soldier's personal hygiene. At 
least for those that cared about it.

Some had a knack of mixing some vinegar with wine right before 
consuming it, in case some of the officers or procastinators were 
making their rounds, checking up on morale or discipline in the 
latter case. Some had dubbed it winegar, and the name was in wide 
use in the army.

Even the officers partook sometimes, as it was known to them that 
the morale and cohesion of an army was far more important in 
battle than mere discipline and adherence to Law. It might be a 
sin, they knew, but who went through life as immaculate and free 
of sin as they when he was born?

And as long as those buffoons, the procastinators, were none the 
wiser, everything worked almost as it should, and the army served 
its Castigator, and the Pantheon, in a most untroubled fashion. 
After all, as some of the older officers used to say, you can't 
make soldiers if you don't break open a few casks first.

Mott announced with some enthusiasm in his voice:

“Ready to serve! Dekar, you sure you don't want some of this? 
Works wonders for the stomach?”

The dekar was sharing some of Lanris pipe when he replied, after 
exhaling, wisps of smoke coming out of his mouth and nose:

“I'd rather not empty it right now, if that's what you mean. You 
can relish it all by yourselves. Don't let me stop you, no way.”

Mott simply shrugged and went to his backpack to fetch his 
canteen. Lanris did so with languid motions, probably certain 
that the broth in Mott's kettle would not disappear any time 
soon.

They each helped themselves to a serving, and sat down on the 
ground, their backs against the sacks. They split some leftover 
breadpie from their midday meal, and each began eating from their 
canteens, Mott clearly more than pleased with the quality of his 
cooking, gulping spoonfuls away with vivid enjoyment. Lanris 
seemed much more reserved in his appreciation, and seemed to just 
be thankful for having something other than the drab, grey gunk 
the army called food to fill his stomach with.

Pirru was looking idly at them while they were having their 
supper, and at length said:

“You know, I heard the Castigator came around to visit the day 
before yesterday. No pomp and ceremony though. If that were the 
case I'm sure everyone would have known. We'd probably still be 
marching up and down parading our asses off.”

Lanris paused momentarily and furrowed his brow before continuing 
to eat slowly, more so because he wasn't too fond of Mott's stew 
rather than because he was savouring it. Mott on the other hand 
was scraping the last spoonfuls in his canteen, and was quite 
possibly going to refill it soon. Dekar Pirru went on:

“I see that didn't get your attention, did it? Nothing short of 
your discharge papers would, I guess. The thing is, seems he had 
a talk with the General. Didn't last long. Short and to the 
point, his staff officers seem to say.”

Mott was up on his feet once more, pouring some smoking hot stew 
in his canteen. He asked Pirru while sitting down to enjoy it:

“So, did word get out of what they talked about? Perhaps, his 
Piousness had gotten word of a fine chef among the Army's 15th, 
and wanted some of my recipes?”

Lanris threw a sideways glance at Mott, before throwing a piece 
of breadpie to his head as well. He did not add a verbal insult 
though, and kept trying to consume the broth left in his canteen. 
Pirru grinned at Mott's comment and said with a slight edge of 
worry in his voice:

“No, I'm afraid his Holyness has not expressed any sort of 
deathwish. I'm sure you'd be happy to serve in that case. In the 
most literal sense. Word around the staff officers is there has 
been a change of plans.”

Lanris left his canteen unfinished, broth and breadpie still 
mixed inside. He placed it near one side of Mott, who surely not 
let it go to waste once his second canteen was emptied. Lanris 
wiped his mouth on his sleeve, and started filling his pipe from 
a pouch he had not opened before. He asked Pirru then:

“Dekar, how come you got by all these news? It's not like you to 
run around staff officers like Himmdal and Rynse do. You've said 
it yourself, if we even get a whiff about you sucking up to a 
staff officer, we can strip that dekar badge ourselves. So shall 
we each grab an arm and do the deed?”

Dekar Pirru looked at Lanris with one eye, pointing a finger at 
him, his rasp voice making the threat almost believable:

“Wiseguys get picket duty on the northern face. I'll make sure we 
stick you on the fence itself. You'll make a good scarecrow.”

Lanris lit up his pipe nonchalantly. Mott was taking care of 
Lanris' leftovers and Pirru went on:

“As I was saying, word is easy to pass along. I didn't fetch 
coffee and wash uniforms for the staff officers to get by that 
important piece of intelligence. I used my cunning and my sharp 
mind. As well as some coin that I'd won on the zar game the night 
before. Nothing ventured, nothing gained.”

Mott put down Lanris canteen empty, and burped loudly, feeling 
his stomach with one hand. He turned to look at his dekar with an 
evident smile of satisfaction on his lips, and said:

“So you went to the 'Cent.”

Pirru started to say something in apparent protest, probably a 
mild reprimand, but Lanris added behind a small cloud of pure uwe 
smoke:

“Yeah, he went to the 'Cent. Probably ripped him off too. Like 
the last time when he asked ten coin for some real Iolathan wine 
that turned out to be vinegar. Not even winegar, mind you. Plain 
old vinegar from the pharmacium stores. He even had the nerve to 
insist that it was a vintage bottle that had could be easily 
mistaken for vinegar by someone who wasn't a connoiseur. I think 
he meant you, dekar.”

“You can make a fool of me all you like, Lanris, but I won't be 
on the earthworks tomorrow morning, digging up dirt like some 
other soldiers I know.”

Mott was enjoying a bit of rest, one leg propped up against the 
other, hands behind his head, his back flat on the ground. He 
added with a naive feeling of surprise:

“Oh you mean Guilemont and Howe? I knew you didn't like them a 
great deal, but putting them on the auxiliaries list now that 
must mean they really pissed on you proper.”

Lanris was hugging his face with one hand, always surprised at 
the ways Mott could sound like a complete dolt. Pirru went on:

“Something like that. Anyway, yes, I went to the 'Cent. 'One 
hundred per cent guaranteed' Tibodot, the little rat. But I got 
my coin's worth now. He wasn't selling cow dung this time. I 
asked the Centarch somewhat sideways if all was going as planned, 
and he too said there was some upheaval upstairs. Some stuff 
would be put on hold until further notice. That's probably the 
reason I'm not putting the pair of you on auxiliary tomorrow. The 
auxiliary's been abandoned. All men are rotating back in their 
usual duties, as per regulation. Lanris, you lucky bastards.”

Lanris took a quaff from his pipe, savoured it and exhaled, the 
smell of fine uwe smoke permeating the air around them. He said 
to Pirru:

“Actually, I learned about the auxiliary from a guy I trade 
regularly with at the 4th. He comes up with uwe, I come up with.. 
Stuff. Told me auxiliary's gone starting by tomorrow. So, I 
figured you couldn't push is into something worse than what we're 
already at. Didn't hear about the Castigator or the General 
though.”

“You should've pushed for rank, Lanris. Field Maggot Lanris has a 
ring to it, doesn't it? Anyway, spare me the dung talk. I got 
some details on that talk, too. 'Cent says that we're waiting for 
some new marching orders.”

“Not the Widelands then?”, Mott cut in with enthusiasm, a glimmer 
of hope in his words.

“Can we ever be sure? If the marching orders do not explicitly 
say 'Widelands', they could well be saying 'No-man's land', or 
'West of the City of Pyr', or 'Middle of Nowhere'. It still 
wouldn't change much, would it? All it means, is there's 
something serious going on.”

Mott cut in again, this time puzzlement in his voice:

“Where's Sirius going to? Got transferred, like he 
wanted?Steamgunner Battalion?”

Pirru sighed, before uttering a mild curse concerning Mott's 
mother. He went on, concentrating his focus on Lanris, who was 
now listening more intently, having sat up and facing the dekar. 
He offered his pipe to Pirru, who refused it with a nod, and went 
on:

“Mott, just shut up and go to sleep. As I was saying, there's a 
lot going on. I just hope the General knows his stuff, and we 
don't end up on the wrong side of the turf.”

Lanris thought about what dekar Pirru had been telling them, and 
at length said:

“Well, going into the Widelands seemed strange. But orders are 
orders, right? So now, when we get new orders, they'll still be 
orders. I don't think it changes anything. About me at least. As 
long as I get my uwe, and even if I have to put up with Mott's 
cooking, it doesn't mean much. Just one thousand four hundred and 
thirty one days to go, dekar. That's all that counts for me.”

“You're all the same, you conscripts. You just want to get on 
with your lives, like it gets any better out there. Still, I 
don't blame you. If something's going to kill you, it doesn't 
really matter where that will happen. I just happen to find 
change bad, that's all.”

“You're not trying to drag me down in one of your morose spells, 
are you?”

Pirru nodded while shrugging, an almost disarming and childlike 
reaction from a dekar almost six feet tall. He grinned to Lanris 
before replying:

“I got wine. Not winegar, real wine.”

“How did you get by that, I wonder?”

“Smuggled off some from the centarch's cabinet. This stuff is 
guaranteed.”

“I see. So, we're both risking forty lashes.”

“Twenty for me, I'll pull rank.”

They both laughed somewhat bitterly inspite themselves. Pirru 
checked hastily around, not really bothering to indeed look for 
procastinators or senior officers lurking in the dark, but rather 
as an instinctive reaction to fear of getting caught. He reached 
into his uniform and produced a small leather flask, no bigger 
than their water flask. He unsealed it and gave it to Lanris. He 
said with a wide grin of accomplishment:

“Smell that? Pure Decau wine.”

Lanris took a whiff, grimaced and shuddered reflexively. He gave 
the flask back to Pirru with exasperation in his voice:

“Gods dammit dekar, why the hell does the centarch buy his stuff 
from 'Cent? That's winegar.”

Pirru looked genuinely surprised. He took a small sip from the 
flask and gulped it down. His face lit up with a look of 
recognition:

“It really is winegar. Seems the centarch bought 'Cent's dung 
speeches as well. But still, it's better than nothing, right?”

Lanris had a sour look on his face, but he nodded in agreement:

“Guess it is. Lemme have a swig.”

Pirru handed the flask of winegar to Lanris. Mott could be heard 
snoring smoothly. A rather unfamiliar voice was suddenly heard 
from the edges of the darkness around them:

“Let me see that flask, dekar. It's not winegar is it?”





“Dekar Pirru and Private Lanris of the 5th, under the command of 
Cilliarch Romentho Isoract were put to the sword today at dawn, 
right after roll call, by a squad of procastinators. Expeditious 
procedures were followed and their files of death were officially 
sealed by both the Procastinator's Office and the Strategium 
Proper. Private Mott of the 5th, was given fifty lashes and 
almost bled to death for, and I quote: 'Not being vigilant enough 
in the prosecution of vile deeds that promoted sin, incurred the 
wrath of the Gods or were an affront to the Pantheon and the 
Rulinc Council'. He was not allowed to return to his duties as an 
active soldier and as such was denied of medical attention. He 
was rotated to the work gangs as per the Cilliarch's instruction. 
Also, Cilliarch Isoract relieved centarch Littmo from his duties 
and has petitioned that he be discharged dishonourably. The 
winegar in question seems to have been stolen from the centarch's 
personal cabinet, from what the procastinators' investigation 
revealed.”

Major Guighan saluted crisply, and remained there standing like a 
statue, immovable, his one hand holding his reports and the other 
hand a fist touching his shiny, unadorned breastplate, right 
above the heart.

General Tyrpledge saluted briefly, almost touching his 
breastplate with his relaxed fist, and sighed. Major Guighan, 
clicked his heels, resumed a more relaxed, but still attentive 
posture and asked the general:

“Sir, will that be all? Should I continue with my work, or is 
there something else you'd have me do, sir?”

Tyrpledge seemed to ponder that suggestion for a little while, 
briefly considering what he could have the Major do. He was 
rather disenchanted by everything today. He was looking at the 
ceiling, the expression on his face lacking the usual austere, 
professional look. He took a look in his mirror earlier. He 
supposed he looked kind of glum, morose, even outright sad. There 
wasn't much he could about it, he thought. Neither was there 
something for the major to do as well. He waved him away with one 
hand, while he kept tapping a marching tune on his desk with his 
fingers on the other hand.

At length he spoke:

“No, that will be all major. Nothing else you can do for me. I'll 
bark if I need anything.”

The major was about to laugh when he saw the general was not 
smiling when he said what the major thought of as a joke. He then 
clicked his heels, made a couple of paces backwards still facing 
the general, turned about smartly and left, careful to close the 
door behind him.

Tyrpledge sighed more audibly this time, thinking this day had 
started off more badly than usual. Though the term 'usual' was 
rapidly evolving from day to day, this was as bad as bad days can 
become. And it was still only morning. Major Guighan had just 
given him the latest situational report. These two men were the 
first dead in this campaign, and a single shot had yet to be 
fired. They'd been executed for drinking winegar and stealing 
from an officer. The centarch's carreer was gone. Perhaps at an 
opportune time, though.

Last night a message had arrived, complete with high-ranking 
ministers and a squad of the procastinators' elite. Tyrpledge had 
been notified that the army was now officially mobilised and 
legally at war. Of course, he thought, there were no specific 
orders included, other than that he should await for further 
notification at a later time. In essence, they were leaving him 
and his men to roast on hot coals until it suited their purpose. 
Such was the fate of soldiers, he mused bitterly.

Actually, those orders had cost those men from the 5th their 
lives. As it is, they were at war even though they didn't know 
with who, and that meant that by Law, the procastinators 
dispersed among them had more authority than he did in matters of 
discipline, persecution of sinners and the relevant penalties 
that might apply.

It seemed that in wartime, theft and consumption of spirits and 
other substances that 'occluded the mind' were punishable by 
death. Tyrpledge was thinking that the centarch whose life was 
destroyed was lucky compared to his men. He then spared a few 
moments thinking about the soldier who was found asleep, next to 
the ones that had been drinking.

They had given him fifty lashes because he wasn't vigilant 
enough. And then they had left him without even a towel to soak 
up his blood. Tyrpledge's thoughts on the matter was that it 
would be a miracle if he made it out alive. But that's what war 
is about.

“Logic is thrown out the window.”, he voiced his final thoughts 
in a low voice, almost a whisper, and sat upright in his chair, 
hands outstretched, his gaze focused outside beyond his window, 
where he could see the majority of his battalions forming up. He 
could discern a sullen mood. It was not that the pace of the men 
milling about was slow. They were preparing their equipment 
fastidiously, checking their armor and their packs so as to make 
sure everything was in order. They had that unmistakable air of 
professionalism about them. But they seemed to be lacking the 
blaze in their eyes. The glimmer in their eyes, the red flush 
cheeks that let you know their blood was boiling, their hearts 
pumping with excitement. There were no such signs here. No 
nervous humor from his staff members, no rauncy jokes from the 
enlisted men. At least he could see any of them laughing. Every 
face he could make out from that distance, was stern, frigid, 
cold. This, he thought, should not be the faces of men going to 
war, knowing they might be dead before the night falls, wishing 
their death would be worthwhile, remembered, even praised. This 
was the face of men knowing they might be dead and wishing they 
were someplace else.

The execution of the men from the 5th had taken quite a toll on 
overall morale. They might be much more cowed now, but that's not 
what he needed to wage war. He needed hot-bloodied men with vices 
and things to wish for. Not little meek children fearful of the 
reprisals of the Law. Why didn't the procastinators understand 
that?

For the briefest moment he thought about contacting the 
Procastinator Militant, asking for his assistance, perhaps 
telling him even to go as far as relaxing their vigilance, 
bending but not strictly breaking the Law.

He immediately thought better of it, since he reminded himself 
that Gomermont was above all, first and foremost an idiot. And 
telling an idiot who has spent a considerable amount of time and 
effort to become leader of a pack of idiots to smarten up a bit 
suddenly, was if not a one-way ticket to the gallows, a certain 
way to scream in despair and agony at the mind-numbing 
foolishness the Procastinator Militant exuded with his every 
utterance. In essence, it would be a lost cause. 

There was a time for war and a time for peace, security, 
stability, lawfullness. War was lawlessness in itself, a 
grandiose lawless fair where people died horribly and for reasons 
beyond their understanding, where nothing mattered more than 
victory. When would they understand that? Probably not soon 
enough.

His bleak thoughts were accented by the lack of a good cup of 
uwe. He decided he wanted a nice distraction, something to take 
his mind of a situation he now felt powerless to amend. He would 
just have to swim through the wave of the coming difficulties as 
they arose stoically. To do that, he had to have a good cup of 
uwe, fresh and steamy.

He now felt determined to turn his thoughts around, wish for the 
best, keep his hopes up. The uwe would be critical in that 
respect. He went for his bell in order to let his aide-de-camps 
know he wanted some uwe urgently, but before he could do that, as 
if by a miracle or a mind-reading ability that the major had not 
exhibited so far, he entered through the door in a hurried 
fashion, stood to one side, saluted briskly and clicked the heels 
of his boots, his sword smartly tucked away with his free hand.

Before Tyrpledge could utter a single word, the Castigator of the 
Outer Territories walked in the general's office, resplendent in 
his wargear, a match for what he was wearing on the anniversary 
of the Pacification of Zaelin, the brightly polished metal 
casting off intense reflections of the suns.

The major tried announced the Castigator, but he was cut short by 
a wave of the Castigator's hand, barely having time to utter the 
word 'behold'. The Castigator was dressed for wartime, that much 
was certain. His lavishly plumed helmet under his one arm, he 
asked the general directly, who was still sitting down in his 
chair, too flabbergasted to remember about adhering to protocol 
and paying proper respect:

“General Tyrpledge, are your forces ready to march?”

Tyrpledge rose up from his seat, cleared his throat and replied 
in a clear, steady voice:

“The Army is ready to march for war, your Reverence.”

“Very well. Signal your brigadiers to assemble, general. We move 
as fast as possible.”

The Castigator nodded and made a turn to leave, before Tyrpledge 
asked with some hesitation:

“Thy will be done, sire. May I ask though, sire, where to?”

“The City of Pyr.”




  Devoted Servants

“Is the refreshment to your liking, my lady? Please, do not 
hesitate to ask anything else you might desire. Definitely let me 
know if the piiri juice is not quite tasteful, I can assure you 
it is part of my job. I merely wish for the guests of House Remis 
to feel more than welcome. That involves knowing if I have 
performed my task adequately. I strive to fulfill my duties in 
the most impeccable way possible. A matter of professional pride. 
So, please let me know if anything is not as you would wish it.”

“I think I understand. No, everything is fine. The juice is quite 
refreshing, especially after the walk here. Thank you for your 
concern. I feel fine. I'll let you know the moment I don't. The 
one thing that worries me now is that I might give birth under 
the circumstances. I'm due pretty soon. As far as I can tell, I'm 
perhaps overdue.”

“Please, my lady, think nothing of it. If the time comes, the 
servants in House Remis will be more than eager to help you with 
your labor. I will inform the maids to have hot water and fresh 
clean towels ready at hand. I'll sent for the doctor immediately 
and notify him to be ready to attend. Until the doctor arrives, 
I'm sure one of the maids, Hrund I think, will be able to act as 
midwife. So, settle your mind and your worries. You and your 
child are safe here.”

“I.. Am at a loss. I could never hope to repay your kindness, 
dear sir. You have not told me your name, though, and I haven't 
given you mine. The rapidity of the events has quite overwhelmed 
me and my manners have gone begging. I am Celia Ptolemy, daughter 
of Turil Olom and wife to Amonas Ptolemy. I am quite pleased to 
be in your care, and I can only promise you that my husband and I 
will repay you by whatever means possible, in due time.”

Ikebod smiled and waved one hand dismissively before answering:

“Please dear lady, you are among friends here. No loss incurred, 
no debt outstanding. You owe nothing to me, perhaps one of your 
smiles to brighten up the room. But even if you did, it would not 
be to my person, but Master Remis, the Lord of the House. So, if 
you still insist on expressing your gratitude and feel that a 
debt has been accrued, then you must take it to Master Ursempyre. 
I am barely the man to quieten down your fears and relieve you of 
such petty worries as debt. I am sure that when he arrives, he 
will properly make you feel comfortable enough and shatter your 
notions of indebtness to House Remis.”

Celia stare grew somewhat hard, and fixed, her face stern, her 
usually sweet features marred by a certain hardness, an 
unyielding quality, as if she suddenly wore a veil of hurt:

“I am sure he will, but please allow me at least some modicum of 
decency and pride. I am not a beggar off the streets, I am simply 
a woman in distress. No matter what your Master says, I feel 
indebted and I shall repay him in whatever way I can, when I can 
do so.”

Ikebod went wide-eyed with shock and surprise, having not 
realised that he had somehow offended Celia. His hands wavered 
and trembled slightly before he instinctively kneeled on one leg, 
a heartfelt lament in his voice, imploring Celia: 

“I am most sincere in offering my apologies, dear lady. I would 
have never thought of hurting your sense of pride and decency. 
Had I such an intention, I'd prefer to have my tongue cut out so 
as not to utter a single word of insult. I had no idea. Please, 
lady Ptolemy, it would hurt me to no end to be the subject of 
your perpetual animosity. I beg you to find it in your heart to 
forgive me. If you cannot, I will take leave of my master and 
begone since I can no longer serve him with honour.”

At these words, Celia grew mellow and was stricken with worry 
that she had hurt the servant's feelings more than he had hers. 
She stood up from her chair slowly, took the venerable servant by 
one arm and helped him to straighten his back, a soothing voice 
with hints of grief and regret issued from her lips:

“It seems my words stung you more than I could imagine. I spoke 
out of turn, I did not intend to cause you such distress and 
discomfort. Please, sir Wirf, I should be the one apologising. I 
took your words too strongly. I know you meant no ill or 
disrespect. You are too kind a soul for such things. Please, call 
me Celia. And if that would make you feel any better, I am sure 
your Master could not have wished for a better man to serve him.”

Ikebod seemed to relax upon hearing such words, and although 
welled up tears seemed to have formed in his eyes, he managed to 
smile faintly and resume his more professional manner.

“You are most exculpatory, my lady.”

“Please sir Ikebod, can we sit someplace else? Preferably 
somewhere I can lay down? My back feels strained.”

“Let me help you to a comfortable couch. You will lay there will 
I let the maids know of your situation and inform the doctor to 
be alert as well. Lend me your hand and follow me to the waiting 
room.”

Celia gave her hand like Ikebod asked her, and he led her through 
a small corridor into the waiting room, which was in essence, a 
large guest hall, lavishly adorned with paintings, complete with 
what appeared to be well-lacquered hand made quality furniture of 
very fine and delicate taste. There were even crystal chandeliers 
full of lit candles, brightly illuminating every corner of the 
more than adequately large chamber, fit for a grand banquet 
rather than a mere waiting room.

The paintings seemed to be portraits of the ancestral Lord of 
House Remis, numerous indeed. Celia had no intimate knowledge of 
the House's history and tradition, but it seemed like they were 
truly an old, venerable family of illustrious heritage. She took 
a closer look of some of the portraits, and the plaques on each 
one confirmed her thoughts: Some had been Generals of the Army, 
some Noble Representatives just like Lord Ursempyre. But she took 
more notice of the ones who seemed not to have taken a liking in 
politics or the army. Their portraits were mostly family 
portraits, including all the close members of the family: their 
children and wife, as well as their grandchildren where 
applicable. Some portraits were quite large, others much smaller, 
rather unglorified. Most depicted smiling, warm, inviting faces. 
House Remis seemed to be bred and raised as good-hearted, 
wholesome people. It seemed only natural to her now that one of 
them would choose to side himself with what many would consider 
dangerous, traitorous, spiteful, blasphemous people. The thought 
that any man would consider people like Amonas as such, depicting 
them as worse then murderous scum, made her giggle despite 
herself. Her thoughts went briefly to Amonas. She stopped 
giggling then, but did not feel despair and sulleness like 
before. She simply felt a keen longing for her love. That made 
her touch her swollen belly reflexively, as if to share her 
thoughts with her unborn child.

At length, she said:

“I'll lie down now, if you don't mind.”

“Certainly, my lady. This is only temporary, while the maids make 
arrangements for your room. Until I serve the uwe, you should be 
able to lie down in comfort in a bed. Please, a few more minutes. 
I'll be back shortly. If you'll excuse me.”

“By all means. Thank you for your consideration once more.”

“Nothing but my duty to serve you, lady.”

She sat down on a wide couch with red velvet lining and only one 
arm. It must have been purposefully designed as such, for people 
to relax comfortably in a lying position. With slow, careful 
movements she laid herself down, her head relaxing on a plush 
soft pillo propped against the couch's single arm. She felt her 
back throbbing slightly, faint echoes of pain coursing from her 
feet up to her neck. She was tired, she had to admit to herself. 
The tension and the urgency, the walk here, all that had been too 
much for her in her situation. She thought for a minute how she 
could hope to outrun any possible pursuers. She hoped she'd give 
birth before such a necessity arose, and if that was not the 
case, she hoped she'd find the strength to do so. Her gaze 
wondered around the luxurious but not pompous chamber. Small 
objects of art were to be found on most furniture, like the grand 
table and some fine cabinets. She thought the decoration was very 
appropriate and measured, to her surprise. She had thought rooms 
like these were designed to impress with their ornate luxury, 
flaunt the owner's riches and resources. But this was not the 
case. It was an elegant space, that very much invited pleasant, 
quiet, reflection and sincere conversation. A place to spend 
quality time, she thought. As she closed her eyes, eagerly 
welcoming the onset of a much wanted sleep, her gaze was locked 
on plain but beautifully crafted vase of pure crystal, the 
shimmer of the candle light forming tiny little multihued 
rainboes on the crystal's numerous faces. It reminded her of 
summers' gone past, she and her father alone by the like, him 
teaching her about the water, the sky and the light. She could 
only remember him fishing quietly, almost reverently, with 
neverending patience and almost complete devotion. With that warm 
memory, she fell asleep on the couch, clutching her abdomen 
because of an instinct none could hope to suppress.





She woke up drenched in sweat and threw the covers laid on her in 
frenzied panic. Her breathing was fast and heavy. She had seen a 
nightmare. This time she had been captured by men with no face. 
The memory of it was still vivid. The men had tried to kill her 
baby, without killing her outright.. She had made every effort 
not to let them, but in vain. They had their way and left there 
where she lay, a damp place that smelled of metal and rust. 
They'd left her there to die, right by her baby. She shivered at 
the thought and felt dry tears staining her cheeks. She must have 
screamed when she woke up, because Ikebod was running down the 
stairs, a glass of water in one hand.

“Lady Celia! I heard screams, are you alright?”

She nodded in acknowledgement, visibly somewhat shaken from her 
bad dream.

“I am better now. I saw a nightmare, that's all.”

Ikebod offered her the glass of water, which she eagerly accepted 
and sipped a little, just to wet her mouth and feel its 
freshness.

“I had not the heart to wake you from your sleep, so I brought 
some covers and left you at peace.”

“That was very sweet of you, Ikebod. Thank you.”

A smile crept up in a corner of her mouth, but it was not as warm 
and glittering as usual. It would be a little while until she 
recovered fully from her nightmare.

“You seem a little pale. That will not do in your situation. I 
have prepared dinner myself. I was waiting for Master Ursempyre 
to return but that has yet to happen. I admit I am more than 
worried for his safety. He was summoned by the Patriarch himself. 
His delay could mean a lot of things, most of which I dare not 
think about from consternation. In any case he would not want a 
guest of his to starve to death, especially a lady carrying. I 
would be happy to serve you dinner, even though it is now past 
midnight.”

Ikebod's tone belied his fear. He sounded calm and accomodating, 
professional as ever. As if the danger his master was probably 
facing was no more than a hindrance, an annoyance at best, and 
that he would soon be surely meeting them at the dinner table. 
Celia on the other hand sat upright with a jolt, her eyes went 
wide and her face wore a mixed expression of anxiety, disbelief 
and exasperation. Her voice was pitched high when she said to 
Ikebod, staring him with a frown:

“Went to meet with the Patriarch you say? Under the circumstances 
that does sound too fortuitous for comfort. Could it be that the 
uprising has been revealed? Your master could be in grave danger, 
Ikebod! Surely you must've heard the stories! The Patriarch makes 
people vanish as if they never had been born! And you ask of me 
to have dinner at such a time? How could I ever?”

Ikebod took the courage of sitting right beside her, a gesture he 
would have normally found insulting beyond forgiveness, indeed 
beyond absolution. Nevertheless, he felt lady Celia would not be 
offended, and he wanted her to understand him wholly on the 
matter:

“Dear lady Celia, I know all that, and still I would ask of you 
to have something to eat. For your child's sake. Do not think of 
me as a cynic, or a bland acquiescent servant. I dearly love 
Master Ursempyre, for I have almost raised him as my own ever 
since his parents passed away when he was still just a little 
boy. When he left the estate, he gave me specific orders in the 
event of his disappearance. I too believe in the kinsfolk and the 
purpose that drives them. I would be betraying my master if I 
wavered, if I gave up without a fight, if I thought him dead and 
gone so easily. But even without him, lady Celia, life must go 
on. We must try our hardest to have freedom for all, for once. If 
anything should happen to him, I will grieve like a father who's 
lost his only child. But I've learned there's a time for 
grieving, and a time for hoping, a time for fighting. And so I 
shall hope, and fight, until I have reason to do nothing else but 
grieve. Do you understand that, my lady? I hope you do. Please 
now, come and have something to eat, if not for your sake, for 
your child's.”

Celia looked in the old servant's eyes with compassion and a 
sudden care she had not felt until now. He was opening up his 
heart and soul to her, exhibiting trust she had thought rarely 
found. She thought she understood. In a manner, that was how she 
felt for Amonas, who though was nowhere to be found, and had not 
seen or heard from him for days now, she still knew he was alive. 
Against reason, she knew he was alive, somewhere. And she'd 
better give up her life before she gave up hope. Because, she 
thought, even if Amonas would never return, their child would be 
born. And she would have to do her best to deliver her child in a 
new, free world. Even if her love would not be there to greet 
their firstborn.

She stifled some tears that welled up in her eyes and sniffed 
slightly. She nodded her understanding to Ikebod, and without 
further comment or remark she tried to smile uncomfortably and 
asked him:

“What will we be having for dinner then? I believe the baby will 
not mind at all.”

Ikebod rose from the coach and offered his hand as leverage to 
Celia. He smiled and told her:

“Well, then. I've prepared some fawn soup with some beaten egg 
and lemon, a variety of sweetmeats, smoked ham and roast potatoes 
with butter, some lamb stew with uwe and some nivoa fish with a 
beetroot purée. The salad is a mix of cabbage, lettuce, and 
radishes, dressed with oli and goat's cheese. For desert, I've 
prepared some cherry pie and the master's favorite, nutmeg and 
chestnut maffle. I apologise for the lack of salad variety, but I 
was in a hurry.”

Celia smiled more brightly and shrugged before saying:

“Though I'd be interested to see what you would have prepared if 
you weren't in a hurry, sir Ikebod. Please, do not lay out all 
that. I think I'll have the soup and perhaps try the dessert as 
well.”

“As you wish my lady. Which dessert should I serve then?”

“Oh, both. I'd hate to be picky.”

Ikebod smiled knowingly and Celia could swear he saw him blink an 
eye as well. He gestured for her to follow him up the stairs, and 
she did so with eagerness.

“Please, right this way. The table is set.”

Celia nodded her thanks and smiled. She felt very lucky to be 
treated so warmly by, in essence, complete strangers. She was 
almost feeling guilty of overindulging herself, but she withheld 
such thoughts, since she felt they'd only serve to insult 
Ikebod's hospitality and hurt his feelings.

They went up the stairs and they were greeted by a large 
dining-hall, dark green and grey marble columns supporting the 
high ceiling. Exquisitely ornamented chandeliers adorned the roof 
and cast bright let across every corner. The dinner table was 
made from a fine solid piece of wood that seemed old and 
venerable, but judging by its healthy sheen, was thoroughly 
maintained. It was probably hundred of years old and from its 
size, Celia thought it could seat upwards of three dozen people, 
perhaps even four. She noticed there were no plates of food or 
dishes of any kind set and she was slightly puzzled. They were 
probably to be seated somewhere else.

He led her to an antechamber through a utility corridor, meant 
for the servants to have access to the kitchen. Celia asked with 
evident interest:

“Where is everyone else by the way? I haven't seen a soul.”

“Oh, most are asleep by now my lady. The maids tended to your 
room, and it's ready for you. I suggest you lie down there right 
after your dinner. Some of the other servants and the guards have 
certain duties to attend to in other parts of the estate, mainly 
the stables from what I can gather. House Remis is not always 
this silent, perhaps in the morning you will see for yourself.”

Celia inquired no further and soon they entered the kitchen 
itself. Dimly lit by a few candles, it was full of utensils and 
large wooden surfaces for chopping meat and foodstuffs. She could 
see there were more than one stoves and at least large ovens. 
Large empty bowls, cauldrons and kettles were gathered in one 
corner. Though quite large for a kitchen, Celia felt the place 
was cramped and imagined it would be close to asphyxiating when 
people were working here in full swing. Ikebod pulled a chair for 
her and gestured for her to sit.

She thanked him with a smile, and sat down to a quite normal 
table that seemed to have seen its fair share of use. It was 
indeed laid out with a simple linen, the bowl of soup in the 
middle, a glass and a wooden jug of wine side by side. Her plate 
was already filled with steaming soup, which gave off a light 
aroma. Indeed, the kitchen smelled of a lot of things, and the 
odours seemed to fight each other fervently but to no avail. She 
realised the smells exacerbated her hunger and she started to sip 
her soup eagerly. Ikebod asked Celia:

“My feet ache. They tend to do that at my age. Would you mind if 
I silently kept you company?”

“I might have asked you that myself. Please do, by all means.”

She felt indeed in the presence of a friend long lost, or more 
likely, long sought after. Perhaps Ikebod reminded her of her 
father. She was too young to remember much about him, but she 
knew he was a good father, a good man. She was certain Ikebod was 
such a man as well.

As she finished her plate of soup, she briefly thought about 
having another serving. The child must be hungry as well, she 
thought. But another serving this late at night wouldn't help to 
ease her bad dreams. Ikebod, as if he could read minds, had 
already served her a plate of cherry pie and that maffle he had 
mentioned earlier. She attributed Ikebod's forward thinking to 
his long experience as servant to a noble house, very much so the 
Noble Representative's estate. No matter why or how, his timing 
was perfect.

He nodded to her and said:

“I'd advise you to start with some maffle, then savour a bit of 
the cherry pie. It has a nice sour touch to it. Then I'd mix and 
match at will.”

She nodded appreciatively and happily dug in the maffle with a 
small fork. She felt genuinely happy and thankful there was time 
enough for her to enjoy a nice dessert. It reminded her of 
happier times, as if everything was alright in the world.

Her thoughts were disturbed by what seemed to be sounds akin to 
yelling and shouting coming from other parts of the house. She 
could hear there was some uproar, voiices from rooms above 
conversing loudly. It was all too sudden. Ikebod was already 
leaving the kitchen. He turned to her as he stood at the open 
door:

“Please, stay here. I'll come back right away. Don't worry, you 
are safe. If we had been under attack I'd known from the sounds. 
There's some uproar that's all. Probably important news. I won't 
be long.”

Ikebod was at once gone from her sight. She returned her gaze to 
the table. The desserts were lying in her plate in front of her, 
half-eaten and unruly. She noticed she had not restrained herself 
from eating as she pleased, but she had rather enjoyed it. Which 
was only natural not to last forever, she thought. The dimly lit 
kitchen which had felt warm and full of wholesome smells, now 
seemed vacant, cold, dark. She felt like leaving the room 
immediately, and did so with some haste. She wanted to see and 
hear the news herself. Perhaps there was news about Amonas; her 
heart skipped a beat at the thought, but she brought her mind to 
its senses. That would not cause such an uproar. “Something 
awful's going to happen”, she said to herself in a hushed voice 
that echoed uncomfortably inside the empty kitchen.

She went through the corridor into the dinning-hall. She could 
hear voices from below, and she raced to the stairs leading to 
the waiting-room with wary expectation wrinkling her face. When 
she reached the feet of the stairs below, she could see Ikebod 
hurriedly conversing with three men, two of them clad in metal 
armor, and one of them bearing a dishevelled cloak, with mud and 
perhaps blood on his face. The two men must have been guards and 
were being issued orders probably, nodding emphatically at 
something Ikebod was explaining. The other man was evidently 
fatigued, perhaps injured, and he seemed exhausted from running, 
breathing heavily, once every so often gulping down some water 
from a tall jug.

She just stood there, not knowing if she should interupt them, 
probably fearing she would ask something silly or impertinent. 
She thought that this was no time for being shy, and just called 
out for Ikebod, not harshly, but demanding his attention:

“Sir Ikebod? What is the matter? What has happened?”

Ikebod and the other men turned to look at her with what felt 
like concern. After a brief pause of silence, Ikebod answered 
her:

“The army is on the move. Castigator Olorius Menamon the IVth has 
fled the city, and it seems he is in command of the army.”

He paused again, this time his face visibly contorted by a 
strange mix of exasperation and sorrow, his eyes torn between 
shedding tears of anger or rueful weeping. Celia was transfixed 
where she stood, her breath coming in shallower with every word 
Ikebod spoke. At length he continued:

“And.. And Lord Ursempyre Remis has been named the new 
Castigator.”

Ad Veritas

The burial of the dead

“I believe I have gathered conclusive evidence as to the function 
of the various artifacts known as keystones. In fact, it can be 
safely proven by virtue of experimentation that these are in fact 
devices of a highly evolved civilisation from an ancient past 
that perished long ago, leaving in its wake nothing but seemingly 
non-descript memorabilia as the remains of a monumental 
metropolis located in the Widelands, as evidenced in the writings 
of Esphalon. I can honestly say that such an unprecedented work 
as I am engaged in currently will be proven to have 
earth-shattering effects and verily change our world forever.”

- Curator Cimon Olom, A treatise on the nature and function of 
the keystones

  Memory and desire

Amonas had been watching Hilderich for what seemed to be the 
better part of an hour now. Hilderich was intently studying the 
surface they were standing on, as well as the base of the horns 
themselves. He kept clutching the keystone, scratching it with a 
finger at times. He seemed to be quite absorbed in thought. 
Amonas had felt he could not contribute at this time, and did not 
bother Hilderich with questions or other small talk. He saw no 
way out of this situation and certainly no way to “ride the 
flames” as Hilderich had put it with enthusiasm.

As Amonas replayed what Hilderich had tried to explain to him, 
the idea seemed extravagantly far-fetched, more like a Curator's 
wild fantasy than anything that seemed to hold any ties with the 
realm of reality.

Hilderich insisted that they keystone was what would enable them 
to realise “the plan”. The plan was to signal the flaming sphere, 
bullet, missile or “train”, whatever one might call it, to stop 
and pick them up. Amonas thought that first and foremost, it was 
preposterous to consider that thing that rushed over their heads 
could be tamed, indeed made to stop. It sounded as if a man could 
command a falling star to cushion its fall, to peacefully glide 
to a stop so he could touch it. So the idea that one could 
actually even board such a thing defied any kind of logic Amonas 
could summon. Hilderich was either totally insane or on the brink 
of an ingenius discovery that could dwarf everything Amonas had 
seen, including the things that had been revealed to him when he 
stepped into the damnable pillar of light in the first place.

He truly hoped the latter case would hold true. In the meantime, 
while Hilderich seemed to be muttering to himself, pacing about 
the flat, matt black floor of the summit, Amonas' thoughts turned 
to Celia. Had she given birth? Was she safe? Had the uprising 
began? So little time had passed, but he was absent at a time 
that could prove to be the important one in history. He was 
afraid he would not be able to keep his promises to Celia. It all 
rested with Hilderich. It was a liberating emotion, in a sense, 
to have someone else hold the keys to your future. Someone else 
would to blame, someone else's success or failure was, in 
essence, what would gain him a trip back home or a slow, 
harrowing death filled with guilt, remorse and memories that 
would haunt him forever. But was it really only on Hilderich's 
efforts? Was there nothing he could do or think of? Had he given 
up on them already?

This damnable place afforde him no real rest, toying with his 
fears, his doubts, his ignorance. He threw a fist to the black 
floor, which remained unyielding, unbroken. The pain that swept 
up from his hand jogged him back into a more determined stance.

Even if he had not the slightest idea about this place and the 
flaming sphere, Hilderich seemed to have at least some idea, 
something to follow through, something that could work. And if it 
didn't, they'd find something else, move on, think of another 
idea. Perhaps study the bullhorns in depth, find out their 
purpose. The land could support them, so they would keep on 
trying to get home.

They would endure. All they had to do was endure and there would 
find a way. There must be a way. He'd do his best to help 
Hilderich, even if that meant he'd have to trust him with his 
life. They'd get back, that's all that mattered in his mind. He 
would get back home to Celia, and their child. He promised to 
himself he'd get back even if he'd have to walk back.

The clutches of reality were inescapable though and he snapped 
back to it when the sweat running down his forehead had turned 
into a small, steady trickle. The heat even under the shadows was 
uncomfortable. They did not have much in the way of water left, 
only a couple of the hard-skinned fruit.

He was wary of leaving Hilderich alone while he went back down to 
collect some more of the fruit, and perhaps locate some source of 
water. The fruit were watery enough, but their sweet taste would 
soon feel sickly if they kept consuming them all the time. He'd 
have to breach the subject sooner or later, but he decided to 
give Hilderich some more time with his musings first.

They did not know when the next flaming sphere would appear and 
that only served to increase Amonas' uneasiness. He believed it 
would be much more useful that they went down to the base of the 
bullhorns, where they could find shelter from the sun, as well as 
food and drink. He also thought that they could forage while 
going around the base of the bullhorned structure, which 
Hilderich was now calling 'horned pyramid', an architectural 
reference Amonas was not familiar with.

Anyway he thought that was a much more sound, safe, and logical 
plan. Hilderich had argued against it, saying that there should 
be enough time between passings for them to figure out how to use 
the flaming vehicle, and they should not wander away when they 
could be so close to escaping this place. Amonas had resisted the 
idea in more depth, by pointing out that even if that were so, 
they had not heard or seen the passing of such a thing ever since 
they arrived here, which would imply that whatever that thing 
was, it did not make frequent overpasses.

Hilderich counterargued that as was the case with wagons and 
carriages, arrivals and departures did not have to be evenly 
spaced and sometimes schedules changed without notice, because of 
necessity. Amonas had left it that but they at least agreed to go 
down once their water supply had run out, rest, re-supply and at 
the same time search around the base of the horned pyramids for a 
possible way in. He hoped it would not come to that, but he was 
fairly sure that was a most optimistic view of things.

Hilderich seemed to be lost in an inner circle of conjectures and 
theories that did not seem to produce any tangible practical 
benefits. At times he would stop and ask if Amonas had noticed 
anything new about the structure, especially the floor and the 
horns, and regrettably Amonas had quietly and calmly insisted 
that if he had noticed nothing new, and that if anything to that 
effect did happen he would surely notify him immediately. 
Hilderich would then nod and go back to his calculations.

He had already paced around the edges of the floor, and had even 
walked over the shadows of the horns, seemingly measuring their 
length, for reasons Amonas could not even hope to infer. It 
seemed like utter charlatanism, a madman in the wilderness trying 
to make sense of something bewilderingly distant, like the suns 
or the stars, the color of the sky, and so on. But he would have 
to be patient and see.

At any rate, they'd soon have to go down to the base of the 
pyramid for water, mostly. Hilderich must be feeling dry as sand 
by now, and he'd definitely developed a sunburn by now.

The keystone in his hand was more like a sigil to him, a charm, 
something he had to connect himself with. He ketp feeling for it, 
touching it, running his fingers around it, but he had yet to use 
it as a device, or as a measure or something that would seem 
somewhat pertinent. It was a greenish stone that gave off blue, 
almost turquoise reflections. It seemed to have a certain depth, 
a reflective quality.

It could be a raw gem, or something similar. Perhaps a glass, he 
couldn't be sure of its nature, and he certainly was no expert. 
It was just that it had a very strange appearance, one that could 
not be easily compared to whatever stone or gem he had seen or 
heard of. It must be really rare, Amonas thought.

Rare enough for someone to keep collecting them, and rare enough 
to seal Olom's fate. He'd certainly miss him. Celia never knew, 
perhaps it was for the best. Now that he's really gone beyond.. 
It was just, Amonas felt, a bit unfair on her. He felt guilty for 
not telling her, but it was a promise he would never break, and 
so did not. Perhaps, in time, he could find it in his heart to 
tell her the truth about her father. On second thought, he felt 
he was obligated to do so, actually. Just as soon as they got 
back. A time that seemed quite indeterminate at that point.

Amonas decided then that he had stay quiet long enough and at 
length asked Hilderich, who was standing almost at the far end of 
the summit, peering downwards over the edge:

“Any progress?”

Hilderich did not turn around, did not even stir or notion 
somehow. It seemed he was rather absorbed in thought. Amonas 
disliked shouting in principle, so he sighed and walked over to 
Hilderich. He noticed the man was standing at the lip of the 
summit, a step before falling over to the steps below. His arms 
were in front of him, the keystone in one hand, finger opening 
and closing in quick succession on the other. It looked as if he 
was counting something. Amonas cleared his throat audibly, more 
as a way to gather Hilderich's attention and perhaps guard him 
from a surprise that could set him off balance in a most 
precarious fashion.

Hilderich paused in his counting momentarily, looked distracted 
for a moment, hastily checking his left and right with a small 
motion of his head, and then resumed counting, his fingers moving 
like playing the harp. Amonas closed his eyes in a show of mild 
exasperation, and said in his usual husky voice:

“Hilderich. I'm right here behind you. Hilderich..”

Hilderich paused, and turned about slowly, a frown of surprise on 
his face. As he did so, he instinctively made a backwards motion 
with his head back, tipping his upper torso slightly aft. That 
was enough to jerk him off his feet, towards the slope of steps 
he was surveying. Arms flailing wildly in a vain effort to steady 
himself, he clutched the keystone hard to his chest and stretched 
out his free hand as a desperate last ditch attempt to reach 
Amonas who was no more than two steps away.

Amonas reacted instinctively with cat-like speed and lunged 
forward, making just one step forward and bending his body 
slightly towards the ground, making a kneeling motion that 
brought his center of mass lower, stretching out both of his 
hands, one reaching for Hilderich's arm and one for his shirt 
about his waist.

A still moment passed when Hilderich seemed doomed to fall and 
tumble down like a ragdoll to his almost certain death and most 
certain grievous injury, with Amonas failing to do anything other 
than watch, his grasp failing by hair's breadth. His mind was 
much faster than his body, so the terrible thought had time 
enough to coalesce with feelings of guilt and failure, curses and 
a repetitive voice that seemed to echo from afar, a simple form 
of denial, yet so piercing that it lanced right through his head, 
even before he could think he had uttered it:

“No!”

Amonas stood there in a kneeling positiong, his body tense, 
almost rigid. He just sat there transfixed, wide-eyed and out of 
breath, his last one cut suddenly short. He gasped for air, and 
only then did he realise he was wolding onto Hilderich shirt and 
palm. Not very tightly, but he could feel some of Hilderich's 
body weight pulling at him. He came to his senses and pulled 
back, edging Hilderich closer. He grabbed tighter with one hand 
and pulled harder, bringing Hilderich right back on his feet, 
safely on the summit's surface.

Hilderich looked surprise, the frown on his face even narrower. 
He had certainly began to show signs of sunburn. Perhaps he was 
stricken from the sun and the light, and got dizzy all of a 
sudden when I called out to him, Amonas thought.

Hilderich was looking about the floor, his hands going through 
his pockets. Something seemed amiss to Amonas. Hilderich cried 
out suddenly:

“The keystone! It must have fell off! I need to go get it!The 
keystone!”

Amonas took him by his arms and spoke to him calmly, steadily, an 
hint of assurance in his voice:

“We are going to get the keystone. We were running out of water 
anyway. Perhaps you were out on the sun for too long. Don't 
worry, noone's going to steal it from you. There's just us around 
here. I'm sure it's somewhere down there.”

“What if it's broken? What if it's damaged, chipped, marred? What 
if it broke? What if I broke it?”

“Control yourself! I'm sure it will be fine, it's a mere 
inconvenience that's all! Now please! Calm down.”

Amonas was forcing Hilderich to look him in the eyes, to convey a 
sense of safety, security and calm. It was as if Hilderich was 
going through the shock of battle. Was the keystone so vital to 
him? To their survival? Was the keystone that sensitive, prone to 
damage? Had their chance to return home tumbled down into 
oblivion by the slip of a foot? He shouldn't take it as granted. 
Everything in its right time, Amonas thought.

Hilderich turned around to look at the steps below, searching for 
the keystone, this time with a healthier distance from the lip. 
He put a hand up to offer his eyes some shade, but still he 
squinted as he tried to make out such a small thing from such a 
distance. He was obviously disgruntled with what happened, and 
after some more searching in vain, he turned around to Amonas and 
told him:

“We have to go down now, Amonas. It could be coming any time now, 
the keystone is crucial. Please, I'll explain to you on the way 
down. I think I know how it works. Please, we need to go find it 
now.”

“Alright, alright don't fret. We were going anyhow. I'm sure it's 
not as far down as you fear.”

Amonas jogged briskly to pick up his sack that was lying under 
the shadow of a horn, and as he came back to Hilderich, he 
produced one of their last two 'brown ones' from the sack. He 
chopped of one end and gave it to Hilderich, then got out the 
last, did the same and they both drank greedily. As they went 
about the lip ready to start their descend, Amonas told 
Hilderich:

“Remember, once we find the keystone, we continue down to the 
base. We need water, and you'll feel it yourself in a pretty bad 
way until we get down. The sun here is scorching hot, we'll need 
shadow, water and sleep once we get down. Then we search around 
the base. Like we agreed, is that alright Hilderich?”

Hilderich was hesitant, almost reticent to answer but at length 
he must have thought about it in a more sensible way, so then he 
nodded and started climbing down carefully but briskly. Soon, 
Hilderich was making good speed, seeing that going down was much 
easier because one could easily slide across the surface of the 
steps with his bottom, then dangle his feet and make a little 
jump onto the step below and so on. It might even be a fun, merry 
activity, especially if they were children and if the sun wasn't 
trying to boil them alive. Amonas found out Hilderich's 
unorthodox way of descending the step to be quite efficient and 
fast, so he copied it and they were both making good progress, 
rapidly descending steps. At each step Hilderich would peer left 
and right quickly but certain enough that not a glimmer of the 
keystone caught his eye. Amonas had advised him to talking, 
breath through his nose and tell him all about what he had come 
up with when they got down. It was supposedly a good way to 
conserve one's water, but Hilderich at one point told Amonas:

“If we miss it on the way down, we're walking from corner to 
corner of the pyramid, each step up the way.”

“I doubt we can do that with no shadow to protect us from the 
heat. We were exhausted when we climbed up the shadowy face. We'd 
be sunburnt to death if we walked every inch of this side.”

“No keystone, no ride Amonas. We'll have to if we don't find it.”

Amonas did not reply and instead carried on climbind down, and 
put himself in the lead. At length, after a little while, and 
while Amonas they had already climbed down half the steps, 
Hilderich cried out:

“There! Over there! I've found it!”

Amonas stopped to look as Hilderich ran across the step towards 
the keystone. He kneeled down and seemed to examine it closely 
from every side, look for signs of damage or any chipping he 
might hope to collect. Instead he found a perfectly shaped 
keystone, and what appeared to be a small dent on the steps.

It appeared quite strange to him that the keystone could actually 
do that, if the stone was indeed the cause for the dent. He 
decided he'd better try something like that later on. It 
perplexed him at a time when he thought he had most things 
figured out. It didn't seem that important, but it was too 
strange even under the circumstances. He let the thought go for 
the moment, and when he stood upright again he was smiling, 
waving his hand with the keystone tightly gripped, and cried out 
to Amonas:

“It is fine! Impeccable as ever! Not a scratch!”

“Glad to hear it. Now come, let's make haste.”

Amonas was indeed glad to hear but he was not sharing Hilderich's 
enthusiasm. He had yet to understand the importance of the stone. 
The only thing that stood to reason and supported somewhat 
Hilderich's claims was that someone had been collecting keystones 
in every way. It had even cost Olom's life, and perhaps other 
lives had been lost in a similar manner as well. Perhaps, the 
keystones were parts of ancient technology that had yet to be 
made working again. Perhaps not all keystones were as important, 
and some were different unique. Perhaps they were all unique, 
indispensable parts to a whole. He couldn't know, and he couldn't 
imagine what Hilderich had come up with. It would all remain a 
mystery until they could get back. He reminded himself that first 
and foremost, he had to get back. And right now, he thought, I 
have to keep myself from drying out. And so they descended, with 
a bit more speed now that Hilderich had secured the keystone.

The sun had taken its toll on them; they were sweating profusely, 
their bodies glimmering with perspiration under the hard greenish 
light of the lone sun. By now, they had both been sunburnt, their 
skins bordering the color of the meat underneath. Hilderich 
seemed to be in a much sorrier state than Amonas, his every 
movement by now painfully evident on his face, and with each 
thrust of pain from his limbs making him flinch in reflex and 
aggravate his pain, the skin of his face wrinkled and coarse like 
a thick sheet of paper.

Amonas came to his side and tried to help him a bit, lending some 
of his strength for Hilderich to go down the stairs. Hilderich at 
first seemed glad to be offered some relief, but then cried in 
pain and waved Amonas to leave him be. Before he resumed his 
painful descent, he told Amonas:

“It hurts, everywhere you might touch me it hurts. I have to do 
this alone. I ache all over. Even speaking hurts.”

Amonas nodded his acknowledgement and looked sympathetic, 
understanding. He replied kindly:

“Alright, Hilderich. You can see the trees now, can't you? We're 
not that far off, just a few more dozens of steps. And then..”

Amonas was cut in mid-sentence when Hilderich collapsed from what 
must have been a deadly mixture of heat exhaustion, dehydration, 
and searing pain. He lunged forward, head over heels his hands 
gnawing at the air for an instant as if trying to catch on 
invisible ropes, and then they fell limp, together with the rest 
of his body. Amonas did not have time to react like before, and 
this time Hilderich went tumbling down the steps in a state of 
uncosciousness, no control over his fall and no protection. He 
seemed to fall really badly on the first step, his chest thudding 
on impact, and then swiveling slightly to his side, he rolled 
two, maybe three steps before coming to a stop, his limbs 
sprawled at almost impossible angles. Amonas feared the worst and 
came rushing down the steps as fast as he could without 
challenging a similar fate. The way he fell, Amonas thought he 
might have broken almost every bone. He hoped his head was as 
intact as it seemed, and that he would be able to move him. When 
he got there, Hilderich was not communicating. He tried crying 
out to him, but he could not rouse him. He was definitely 
unconscious, probably the reason for him collapsing.

He did not know which bones on Hilderich's body were broken, but 
nothing seemed to jut out gruesomely, so that meant that if 
something was broken, it was not visibly. He tried to feel 
Hilderich arms and legs, as well as his ribs, but he was not an 
expert man of medicine and he could not make any seriously 
correct assessment. He believed his arms and legs were fine, but 
some of his ribs felt funny and might be broken. He might be in 
pain when he woke up, but he could still walk probably. Under the 
circumstances, he felt he should be counting Hilderich's 
blessings.

With strenuous effort he managed to lift Hilderich's waist on his 
right shoulder, his body laid out so as to bear the least burden 
on his probably broken ribs. Amonas' movements became difficult 
and strained, with Hilderich's limp body seemingly protesting at 
their every move, feet and legs getting in the way, sliding 
uncomfortably along the steps.

Amonas felt very close to collapsing himself under the strain and 
the heat, but he pushed on heedlessly nevertheless, trying to 
make it to the treeline which was only a few dozen feet away. He 
was coming down the last steps, when Hilderich started coming 
around, moaning deeply from the numbing pain. He managed to croak 
a whisper, while wheezing, his breath troubled:

“What.. happened..”

Amonas shushed him and answered with strain in his voice, his 
gruff voice exaggeratedly harsh, literally dried out:

“You fainted and fell down the steps. You've broken some ribs. 
Don't talk.”

Hilderich was silent again. Amonas thought he might have fainted 
again, but that was not his principle care. They had to make it 
to the treeline and the little shadow it offered.

He was walking over the canal-like indentation on the ground, 
tall grass around him, dragging his feet with admirable effort 
and determination. His face was contorted from the pain of his 
aching muscles and the extra weight they had had to carry for 
these last few minutes. A little while longer, Amonas kept 
thinking to himself. A little while longer into the shadow, and I 
can rest. He closed his eyes and kept on walking with the same 
pace, Hilderich slung over his shoulder like game, him gritting 
his teeth, his breaths coming short and hard.

When at last he reached the relative shadow of the trees, he 
could still feel the heat, but the scorching rays of the sun were 
gone, dwindled as if kept at bay by the forest. With one last bit 
of effort, he kneeled down to the ground and offloaded Hilderich 
as carefully as he could, trying not to hurt him much. Hilderich 
came to for a moment, moaned deeply and grimaced from pain, and 
then was out again, his breathing shallow, as if his body knew 
anything more would hurt like stabs of red hot iron in his lungs. 
Amonas then braced Hilderich from under his armpits with both 
arms, trying not to cause him any more pain, and dragged him over 
to the wide trunk of a tree, propping him up against, so he could 
breathe without fear of drowning. He felt he could do nothing 
more for Hilderich for the time being, so he crawled a bit 
farther away under the shadow of a tree with a bark as wide the 
wall of a cabin, closed his eyes and just slept without dreaming 
a single thing.





He opened his eyes to the sight of the green canopy, a labyrinth 
of shades of green, large and smaller branches criss-crossing it 
like a net cast out onto a sea of leaves. His mouth was parched, 
he felt his head heavy, a headache pounding his mind like a 
hammer on an anvil. He was thirsty, he needed water. Hilderich 
was still unconscious it seemed, just laying there, his breathing 
laborious, a raspy, unhealty sound. He needed a doctor. They 
needed to get back to civilization, back home. Amonas judged 
Hilderich was in no shape to walk around the base of the pyramid. 
The most immediate need was water though.

Amonas stood up with a lot of effort. He felt disoriented, his 
senses failing him, his vision slightly blurry, unfocused. He 
misjudged the location and distance of things around him. The 
dehydration must have been more severe than he had felt it. And 
the heat was only making things worse. He slowly paced himself 
through an opening in the vegetation, a path that offered less 
thick greenery, more easy terrain. He was looking for the, usual 
by now, tree with the brown nut-fruit, the one with all the 
watery juice inside, but couldn't see any. The trees did look a 
bit different, as if this was another part of the forest, less 
thick, with more space. Fewer but larger trees, wider openings 
and more upwards space. Like a vast hall, supported on wooden 
pillars.

But no fruit. Or something else to eat, most importantly no 
water. He could still make out the clearing in front of the base 
of the pyramid where Hilderich lay. He had not gotten very far, 
though he felt already tired, worn out. The dehydration was 
severe now. He paused and sat by the exposed root of a tree. He 
thought it was too dangerous to venture farther away from the 
pyramid and Hilderich. He was looking up, a vast net-like 
congregation of saplings extending from one tree to the other, 
like ropes meant to build a bridge. They were probably carrying 
water or some juice, but he could not reach them, they were too 
high up. He'd need to try and climb up a tree like a mad cat, and 
he was certainly in no condition to do so.

He then turned to the thick root he was sitting up against. It 
looked healthy and vital not gnarled. A young root, a young tree. 
There should be some water flowing through it, he thought. He 
brought out his knife and tried to put a stab to the root, deep 
enough to go through its skin to the veins of the tree. Hopefully 
some water would seep, at least enough for him to drink now, make 
him able to go on, search further.

He stabbed as hard as he could, then worked his knife, twisting 
and bending it as iff trying to cut out the tree's heart. At 
length, pieces of the root came out with a strong, pungent smell, 
something like oil glistening on the knife's blade. Amonas ran a 
finger on it and sampled it, the taste woody and bitter. It felt 
indeed more like oil rather than water.

With some more effort, his head now feeling like a ministry bell 
tolling incessantly, he dug deeper into the root, trying to get 
past its meaty part, into the core of it, where water coursed. He 
dug with his knife, and his hands, feeling the oils giving way to 
moist, soft wood matter. A final chip with the blade, and he saw 
a trickle coursing down, dripping on the ground.

With sudden greed, he put his mouth on the wound he had inflicted 
on the root, and sucked like a newborn baby. It was water after 
all. He wet his lips and his mouth thoroughly, letting the cool 
liquid refresh his flesh, and spat it out. He then let the 
trickle fill his mouth, while he filled the two flasks he was 
carrying, patiently waiting for the trickle of water to fill them 
drop by drop.

All the while, he sat more comfortably, leaning against the trunk 
of the tree, almost as if ready to take nap. He swallowed small 
portions of the water in his mouth, savoring it. He had been 
dehydrated before, and knew it was a lot of worse if a man that 
had been denied of water for too long, just dived straight in a 
lake or drank to his heart's content. He had seen men die of it, 
for reasons he could not know, or even the doctors explain. He 
thought it was a sick way of nature to make men pay for their 
greed as well as their lack of respect to water, and thinking 
about how important it is to them from beforehand. The irony was, 
he had been none the wiser, barely carrying an extra flask with 
him.

His mind did not wander or drift as it had done so before in the 
days before. Necessity drove him, and his instincts. He took 
things as they were, his mind enjoying a numbness while both it 
and his body recuperated slowly, the effects of the dehydration 
slowly withering away, viogour reappearing in his face, his head 
throbbing gently instead of being about to explode.

Once the flasks were filled to the brim, he had drank a couple 
more mouthfuls by now. He was feeling markedly better, and he 
believed he could find another such root with more wandering, but 
with no way to carry more water, it would be in vain. So he 
decided to get back to Hilderic, and tend to him, rouse him, and 
give him badly needed water.

When he got back to where Hilderich was sitting, he tried 
speaking to him to rouse him, shake his head, but to no avail. 
Then he used some of the water, letting it run down on Hilderich 
head, face, and back, dousing him carefully so as not to waste a 
lot of it. The cool water slowly coursing Hilderich's body had 
more effect. He fluttered his eyes momentarily and then gasped, 
and a sting of a pain immediately ran through him, the bones in 
his ribs stabbing him without warning. Amonas offered him the 
flask of water and told him in a soothing, reassuring manner:

“Breathe lightly, or it'll hurt like death each time. You have 
broken some ribs, that much is now certain. You are dehydrated, 
your head must spin and hurt like being swung at with a mallet. I 
am too, only I drank some water and feel good enough to stand on 
my two feet. Now, you just sip some of this very slowly and 
carefully. Don't gulp down on it, it might kill you, and I'm not 
known for my humoristic streaks. Now flex a bit your arms and 
legs if you can, you've been lying there for hours, your muscles 
will go dead stiff if you don't. We'll wait it out, you'll drink 
till you feel a bit better and then perhaps I can make you a 
splint out of some wood I might rummage. How does all that sound?”

Hilderich managed to lift his head and look at Amonas briefly. He 
was evidently in a lot of pain, and in a pretty poor state. He 
needed genuine rest and this was not the place for it. Hilderich 
nodded silently in acknowledgement, and Amonas smiled bitterly. 
He said then:

“If you agree then, let's keep to that plan.”

Hilderich seemed then to be tryong to flex and move a bit his 
arms and legs. But one hand he laid on Amonas arm, who was 
kneeling down beside him, and then rasped in a low whisper:

“The.. keystone. Not lost again?”

“No, no, it's safe and sound. Don't worry about it now.”

Hilderich nodded once more wearily, his head moving 
imperceptibly. He managed to say something else after he sipped 
on some water:

“Perhaps, you were right. We need to be here.”

“Where do you mean?”

“The base. The pyramid. I'll tell you. I hope.. we have time.”

“We have all the time in the world, Hilderich. Now, drink, don't 
talk, and rest.”

Hilderich was insisting that Amonas listened to what he had to 
say, tugging his cloak with a grip that belied his feebleness and 
injuries. He spoke with a rasp, his throat still too dry for 
comfort:

“The keystone. The wall. They're like water and sand.”

Amonas furrowed his brow intensely, puzzled at what seemed a very 
vague half-statement especially when coming from Hilderich. He 
motioned Hilderich to sush himself, putting a finger to his 
mouth, but Hilderich went on, inspite himself, after coughing 
with what appeared to be blood in his sputum:

“I know it doesn't make sense. The stone can be absorbed into the 
wall. It is a keystone. The wall is a door. It should work. 
Please, try it.”

Amonas nodded condescendingly and said:

“You can try all you want to when you get better.”

Hilderich gave off another cough and a splutter of bloody saliva 
forced him to look away from Amonas. He then turned his face 
again to look into Amonas eyes, wheezed while breathing harshly 
and told him, this time with what seemed to aggravation in his 
voice, even annoyance:

“You need to listen to me! Use the key, force it into the 
pyramid's wall, anywhere really. Let it be drawn into the 
pyramid.”

“Where have you been getting these ideas Hilderich? You must be 
delirious, running a fever surely. Please, stop exerting your 
self and drink some water. Here.”

Then Hilderich's face was suddenly contorted, wildly disfigured 
from anger and despair at the same time, and with a jerk he threw 
the open flask Amonas proferred away, spewing its precious water 
content along its flight. He was now talking fast, anger in his 
voice, pain underlining every word, gasping between every phrase:

“You're not listening! You think I'm seeing things! I saw the 
keystone left a dent on the stone, a bump that wasn't there 
before. There is some affinity with the pyramid stones. What are 
you going to lose if you try? Your vaunted pride? If you don't do 
it now, there's every chance we are going to miss the next 
fireball and that might be our last! Do you want to die here? Use 
the keystone! Find a way in!”

Amonas made a backwards step, like being physically pushed and 
had to rebalance himself. His face wore an expression of 
disbelief, hints of feeling awkward, hurt. He felt like he had 
been lied upon, whereas he had trusted Hilderich almost 
unflinchingly.

“But you said it was like hitching a wagon, that there's a 
schedule and so on!”

Hilderich coughed once more, his lips now red with his blood:

“Haven't you heard of wishful thinking before?”

Amonas stood up while staring down at Hilderich, accusation in 
the tone of his voice, a finger pointing at him waveringly, as if 
he wasn't sure whether this man was to be blamed or not:

“You.. You're injured, you're seeing things, that's all I can 
know for sure.”

Hilderich rasped once more, this time with more volume in his 
voice, making it sound rather inhuman and menacing:

“You wouldn't know your head from your arse. Now use the damned 
keystone! Just push it through the wall!”

“What do you mean?”

Hilderich looked at Amonas with fiery eyes that stung and looked 
as if embers were burning inside, and told him slowly, painfully, 
with fear, pain and real anger showing on his face and in his 
voice:

“Just push it through the wall! Like driving a nail! Gods dammit!”

He coughed once more, blood spewing forth, running down his lips 
and chin. Amonas thought that since he could do nothing more, he 
could perhaps indulge him and that might bring some sense into 
him. He nodded without genuine assent, stoop upright and walked 
to where the flask had landed. He picked it up, exchanged 
strenuous looks with Hilderich and carried on to the wall of the 
pyramid.

When he reached it, feeling the sun blazing hot upon him, he took 
some time to study it. He could not hope to really understand to 
what purpose it was made, the fiery bolt that ran through the 
horns before only adding to the puzzle. The black matt stones 
were strange, glass-like to the touch, but hard, not brittle. Not 
much of all that had transpired made any sense though, either. So 
he just did as Hilderich told me, took the keystone and placed 
its longer side flat on the stone that stood right in front of 
him, forming the first step, waist-high.

Nothing happened, as expected of something that the delusional 
mind of a seriously injured man had come up with. Then, for the 
sake of proper procedure and carrying out the idea to the letter, 
he pushed the keystone down with one hand, feeling quite 
unwarrantably stupid. As he pressed down momentarily he somehow 
felt the keystone give way. He let it go, and then used his index 
finger to press ever so lightly. Nothing that his senses could 
grasp ensued, and he kept on pressing slightly harder and harder, 
when after a certain threshold, the keystone indeed gave way and 
it seemed to bury itself gradually in the black stone. To his 
untold surprise, once he had indeed pressed it halfway deep into 
the black stone, the green keystone lit up with a rainbow of 
colors cast from an inner light that could not have been a 
reflection of the sun, as his shadow was blocking it. It was as 
if somehow the stone had come alive. Unable to contain his 
surprise and sudden enthusiasm, Amonas started yelling back 
towards Hilderich:

“You were right! It's doing something alright!”

The flaring lights suddenly stopped, and the keystone remained 
inert, half way there into the black surface of the pyramid's 
blocky stone step. Amonas did not know what to do next. An 
instinctive fear raced through his mind, preventing him from even 
moving or thinking. He stood there almost impassively, not 
knowing what to do next, fearing the unknowns that he had been 
hunting down. It was ironic that now that he was able to actually 
progress past theory, thought and conjecture into something that 
seemed to work, react, do something even though it remained 
unknown, he had frozen. From his basic, human fear of the 
unknown. He knew he had to focus his mind, force himself past 
such notions. So, with his indecision hidden away he touched the 
half-buried keystone, one more time with his palm, and then it 
was gone, like being swallowed by the blackness of the stones 
alone.

And then the most amazing thing he had seen, only comparable with 
the fireball from before, unraveled before his eyes with 
astonishing speed and seeming complexity. The stones in front of 
him became somewhat transparent, letting some light through. 
Their smooth surface became crystallized, faceted, rough, but not 
coarse and random. It looked rather like wrinkled paper that was 
folded a thousand, a million times and then laid out again, 
perfectly patterned.

The stones started to part, dissolve, each little part of 
absorbed by the facets next to it, like the stones were eating 
themselves away. The sight reminded him of a half-frozen lake 
being shattered and the ice sinking down instead of floating 
though in a very fast and methodical way.

This transfiguration, this certain proof of the otherworldiness 
of the place, was over before Amonas could even blink twice. And 
what was left in the place of the stones, was a corridor as if 
carved in the stones, wide enough and tall enough for a man of 
Amonas size to walk in. He was stunned from awe, unable to fully 
comprehend what he had witnessed. It was as if magic was as real 
as the ground, as real as stones and air and the sun.

With some effort, he gathered his wits and cast aside the 
protests of his mind to see, and hear and touch and wonder 
wide-eyed at this inexplicable, majestic building that challenged 
reason every time. He focused on the harsh reality and its 
necessities, and peered over the half-lit entrance that had not 
been there moments before. He could see no lights coming from 
within, no other sort of emplacements or provisions for torched 
or the like. It was pitch black in there, but the important thing 
was that it was now open. 

Instinctively he thought about the newly built entrance closing 
suddenly in a manner similar to how it had been opened and 
trapping him inside, or even worse trapping half of him inside. 
He made two quick steps back, as if he had been warned in 
advance, but nothing happened. He shook his head in disbelief and 
disapproval of himself. They had a way in and that was all it 
mattered, though. There was a way in and Hilderich was right. 
They had to move inside now, and that meant moving Hilderich as 
well. That would be troublesome, Amonas thought as he made quite 
a few steps backwards before running to Hilderich, almost unable 
to let the sight of the wondrous entrance depart.

Hilderich was still propped up against the trunk of the tree, 
wheezing as he drew his breath with painstaking effort. Amonas 
noticed he was grinning now though, and his spirits flared high 
anew. With a broad smile he kneeled next to Hilderich and said:

“It worked you were right. Once the keystone went in, an entrance 
opened up as if by magic, a wondrous affair. Filled me with awe 
and that rarely if ever happens. You should be proud of yourself, 
Hilderich.”

Hilderich flinched painfully as he repositioned himself in a more 
upright position using his hands and replied, grunting some of 
the words:

“I shouldn't be in this.. mess. Then.. I could be proud. The.. 
keystone? Do you have it?”

Amonas face turned into ash and froze at that question. In the 
tumult, amidst all the suprise and awe, he had forgotten all 
about the keystone, that had just disappeared into the stone. 
That made him uneasy. He licked his lips with his tongue, and 
tasted his sour sweat. He had no answer that might quieten 
Hilderich's fear, so he simply told him:

“No. It went into the stone, the entrance into the pyramid 
opened, and that was all. The keystone did not reappear. I'm 
sorry. I think it has served its purpose.”

Hilderich's face lit up somewhat and then he burst into a painful 
mix of choked laughter and blood-sputtering coughing. He tensed 
up and restrained himself, the pain from his broken ribs becoming 
unbearable while he laughed. He grimaced while the waves of pain 
coursing through him settled down, took a shallow breath and 
replied to Amonas, who was now sitting down with his legs woven 
together, looking quite perplexed with Hilderich's strange 
reaction:

“You talk as if.. it were alive. Could be, for all I know. That's 
alright.. I guess.. We'll find it, further inside.. I believe. 
Made me.. laugh. The way you seemed so.. pensive. Almost, 
mourning. The keystone's fine, you'll see.”

Amonas face relaxed and he seemed to accept Hilderich's thoughts 
as if they made sense. In any other context, he would still 
believe the man was making up things in his mind, but he now felt 
indeed compelled to take Hilderich's every word seriously. He 
couldn't know why, but he had been right so far.

“Alright, Hilderich. So, now we have to figure a way to get you 
in as well. It only fits one man about my size. That means I 
won't be able to carry you through on my shoulder like I did back 
then. How are you feeling? Have you had any more water to drink? 
If there's no water left I can always go back and hack at some 
root, fill up the flasks. Hope you don't throw half of it away 
though this time.”

“I feel horrible. I think.. it's understandable, under the 
circumstances.”

Amonas shook his head briskly in acknowledgement, but insisted:

“I can see that Hilderich, but I need to know if you can move on 
your own now. I guess that would be, as you've put it, wishful 
thinking. You also need water. Here, have mine for now. I'll fill 
both later, somehow.”

Hilderich grinned and replied:

“My head is still buzzing.. I feel weaker than an ant, but.. I 
think I'm doing somewhat better. But walking would be.. quite 
wishful. Perhaps.. You could fix a stretcher of sorts. Something 
to.. to drag me with. Sorry about the flask..”

Amonas waved Hilderich's last remark away with one hand and 
looked him up and down, thoughtfully, as if measuring him. Then, 
he looked around him, trying to identify something around him 
within sight that he could put to good use. He said to Hilderich 
while standing up, his head darting in every direction, searching 
for anything that he could use. At length, he asked Hilderich 
with a certain degree of hesitation:

“Will a sort of harness do? Something I could wrap under your 
armpits, around your shoulders too perhaps? It should hurt anyway 
I go about it, but I think it's the most practical thing I 
believe I could manage in reasonable time.”

Hilderich looked at his feet, sprawled as they were, his vision 
evidently out of focus. He seemed lost in thought, but then he 
coughed, still traces of blood in his saliva and replied to 
Amonas:

“Whatever makes sense to you. I'm pretty.. useless at these 
crafts, so I'll make do.. I guess.”

Amonas nodded with a slightly comforting smile, and hurried away, 
headed to a cluster of trees and bush that Hilderich could not 
clearly make out.

Hilderich' body was constantly assaulted from the heat and 
moisture that had only been bearable under the shadow of the 
bullhorn pyramid. Now, with his ribs broken, his skin sunburnt 
and his body dehydrated, he felt like someone had left out his 
mind to dry over white hot sand and stone. And every breath felt 
like he had been dismantled and put back somehow wrong, the bones 
in his ribs turned into blades set against his insides, stabbing 
him every chance they got.

His throat felt like a dusty canyon and what little saliva was 
left in him was bloody and thick. He needed more water, that was 
true. But more than anything else he needed to get in there. Get 
in the pyramid. See for himself. After all, he thought Amonas 
could not make it without him, he'd have no chance to understand 
what surrounded him. But in this sorry state, they both needed 
each other, more badly then ever before. He just decided to wait 
though, and in doing so slowly and despite the constantly painful 
and irritating coughing, fell asleep fitfully.

Amonas woke him up, gently shaking his leg. He woke up without 
really wanting to, and saw Amonas had indeed prepared a sort of 
harness, a piece of paraphernalia that must have been tacked 
together while he was asleep. It was made out of thick straggles 
of some kind of vine that seemed to be abundant here, a somewhat 
flat branch of sappy wood, and a quite large, thick deep green 
leave, shaped like a flattened arrow's nose. Amonas was grinning, 
as if he had intented for this appurtenance of sorts to look like 
an exotic mule's rein, and was certain that the irony would not 
go wasted on Hilderich.

Hilderich indeed looked at what Amonas had fashioned, and though 
still in a sort of after-sleep haze, he managed to point at it 
and snigger, as opposed to laughing outright which was rather 
painful. Amonas came closer and holding the various parts 
together told Hilderich:

“Now, I know what you're thinking since you're in such a good 
mood, but any similarity with a donkey's strap and rein is purely 
unintentional and simply a product of the same basic design 
principles that define both pieces of gear. I'm sure you would 
agree in the end, but let's try and get this on now, shall we?”

Hilderich nodded in agonizing agreement, and Amonas grabbed him 
by the arms and lifted him upwards, propping him upright against 
the runk of the tree. Hilderich let out a cry of pain as his ribs 
must have had his insides jarred once more. Amonas tried to be 
quick about it since he saw Hilderich was barely able to stand, 
much less walk. He placed the branch of wood as a backplate, a 
support to keep his torso, chest and ribs strict and unbent, to 
prevent further aggravating his wounds inside, as well keeping 
the bones somewhat steady, if they were to build a proper splint 
once they went back and found a doctor. The prospect seemed ever 
closer now, and filled Amonas with ardor. He completed fastening 
the gear on Hilderich, binding the ropes and setting the large 
leaf across Hilderich's back, as a sort of cushioning, without 
which he believed he'd be unable to move him more than a foot.

Once he was finished, he lowered Hilderich down to the ground 
again, and then passed the other end of the rope around his 
waistbelt and tightened it. He said to Hilderich who was 
evidently uncomfortable, his arms sticking out in a weird 
fashion:

“Ready when you are.”

Hilderich nodded in a disgruntled fashion and Amonas then started 
to move, at first rather sluggish, but soon he was able to walk 
slowly with Hilderich in tow. Soon, they reached the large ditch 
which proved somewhat of a pain because of the angled banks. 
Hilderich almost slipped down and Amonas barely avoided being 
dragged down and falling head first into the ditch. In a similar 
fashion, heading up the ditch put evident strain on Amonas, who 
reached the entrance with Hilderich behind him, sweating and out 
of breath. He stopped a few steps behind the actual entrance and 
gestured at it with one hand:

“This is it. You were right. It just, sprouted open in a most 
perplexing way. The stones acted on their own, remoulded 
themselves somehow.”

Hilderich was still attached to Amonas via the makeshift harness, 
and was craning his neck in an effort to somehow see better 
inside the passageway that led deeper inside the pyramid. He told 
Amonas:

“Let's go in.”

Amonas nodded in agreement and started to walk inside. As he 
reached the foot of the entrance, he noticed the passageway in 
front of him starting to flicker and shine. It was doing it 
again, the stones in the structure were rearranging themselves, 
like before. Hilderich let out a gasp of surprise and enthusiasm 
and asked Amonas instantly:

“Is that what it did before? That's wondrous! It makes way for 
us! The passage is wider now! Look!”

From what it looked like, the corridor was widened a bit more to 
more easily accomodate Hilderich as well. Amonas was surprised 
once more, but he wasn't feeling mesmerised this time. He 
believed though it would take him awhile to greet this is as 
normal. Without further ado, he took a few steps more, and they 
were both now inside the pyramid proper. The sunlight could not 
reache them here and a cool fresh air greeted them. They were 
following a corridor that seemed to glow faintly from within its 
walls, strangely illuminating their way as they walked through 
it, a spot of soft light between harsh darkness. As it was they 
could not see very far into the pyramid, the radius of lighting 
comfortable enough it simply followed them and did not extend 
beyond a few feet. Amonas stopped then, and asked Hilderich:

“Are you sure we should be going inside like this?”

Hilderich was looking with amazement around the walls and the 
ceiling, the black matte stone having turned into a 
semi-transparent glass, the light casting hues and specks 
reminiscent of a artisan glasswork, perhaps even a gemstone. It 
took Hilderich a while to respond to Amonas question, but he did 
so in a gleeful voice despite the condition he was in:

“More than ever! It's a wonder in itself, this material!”

Hilderich coughed then and spat some more saliva with blood. 
Amonas trudged onwards bearing Hilderich in tow and simply said:

“Just be patient, Hilderich. We're getting somewhere. The draught 
is getting stronger somehow.”

It was indeed a matter of a few more minutes spent in silence and 
awe, before they reached a sullen, gloomy opening, with a single 
column of light shattering the darkness, illuminating a blocky 
metal or stone artifact, its surface a mirror with a bronze-like 
sheen. Amonas was awestruck when he saw his image reflected on 
that surface, even while there was still a wide gap of shadow 
between them and the artifact. Hilderich noticed Amonas had 
paused and asked him in what seemed to be like a worrisome voice:

“Why did you stop? Is something the matter? What do you see? I 
only see blackness.”

Amonas replied while still measuring and looking at the block of 
stone, a monolith of sorts, his voice a low whisper, like men 
fearful of awakening something terrible:

“There's a block made of, something like stone, metal, or glass. 
Something like the rest of what this place is built from, but not 
quite so. It can.. See me. Through the darkness. My reflection is 
right there.”

Hilderich went silent with thought after Amonas' answer. Amonas 
waited for Hilderich to make a remark, perhaps give some advice, 
but he said nothing. He said then:

“I'll just walk over there. If it was dangerous, it wouldn't have 
let us in, would it?”

Hilderich answered with some uncertainty trailing his words:

“That would be quite illogical, so I'd have to agree with your.. 
assession.”

Hilderich coughed right before the last word, pain travelling up 
his throat feeling as if it was about to choke him, his lungs 
burning. He was almost used to the pain now, but that did not 
make things much easier for him.

Amonas did not reply but simply headed for the bright area where 
the monolith stood, the reflection of Amonas on its surface 
beginning to look somewhat strange. Firstly, Amonas noticed it 
did not reflect the harness or the bulk of Hilderich that should 
be visible. Secondly, the reflection did not seem to grow larger 
the closer he came to the stone. It seemed to be the same size as 
Amonas, all along, from when he noticed it first. He thought to 
himself he should be feeling wary by now, but all he felt was 
puzzlement, interest. Fear had not crossed his mind, which was 
either a good sign, or extremely stupid of him. If they were in 
danger, he had no such notion.

Hilderich was mysteriously silent, but then again his injuries 
made it that difficult to speak his mind as Amonas would've 
thought he should have been doing constantly since they had 
entered the pyramid, especially now with this intriguing artifact 
laid out before them. Hilderich then took him by surprise when he 
said:

“Tell me. What do you see on the stone?”

Amonas was surprised and stopped. Light was shining down on them, 
bright and white, but not hurtful to the eyes. As if it poured 
from around them, not from the ceiling of this chamber or cavern 
the size of which they could rightly assess. They had noticed no 
echoes whatsoever, and their eyes could not see beyond the 
illuminated area around the monolith. They could be anywhere. 
Amonas responded, offering a simple description to Hilderich:

“It's about twice my height, thrice my width. It looks black, but 
that's not exactly right. It gives off a feeling of glass, and 
has a bronze sheen. I can see my reflection on it, imperfect, 
like what it would like through a thick sheet of cheap glass. I 
look somewhat deformed, a honey-like hue on my image.”

Hilderich took a few moments to digest that information, and 
asked Amonas again:

“Do you see me in that reflection? Shouldn't you be seeing me?”

“I don't. I think not even the harness is visible. But I can see 
myself talking, waving an arm and such. It's uncanny, I'll admit. 
Like someone is standing there. Mocking me.”

Hilderich shuffled where he lay, and said to Amonas:

“Please, help me stand. I need to have a good look.”

“Are you sure?”

“We're only wasting time. If I need to make some observations, I 
need to do them myself. Please.”

Amonas then lowered Hilderich carefully and undid the ropes. He 
unclasped the wood on Hilderich's back, and offered Hilderich his 
hands. They embraced, arm with arm, and Amonas gave a questioning 
nod. Hilderich nodded in acknowledgement, and Amonas pulled him 
upwards hard and fast, so as to minimize the after-effects of 
splintered bone against Hilderich's raw flesh. It didn't work all 
that well and while Hilderich was gripping Amonas' shoulders for 
support, he almost fainted from the stabbing pain, his cry 
splitting the silence in the chamber in two, but still no echo. 
His shook his head as if trying to shake the pain away, and after 
a few more moments of shallow breathing he managed to stand on 
his two feet, and slowly turn around to look at the monolith 
himself, Amonas supporting him by his side.

“You are right, it only reflects you. It's as if I am 
non-existent, indifferent. Like it doesn't recognize me. Like 
it.. only knows you.”

“You are saying this thing could be, thinking?”

“I don't know if that's true but it, whatever it is, seems to be 
able to recognise, identify. Perhaps that's all it does, its 
chief function. Like a guard, or a gatekeeper.”

Hilderich coughed somewhat hard, and flinched before spitting out 
a blob of bloodied sputum. To his amazement, he saw it reach the 
floor and then seep through it, like it was absorbed. A mere 
moment later, Hilderich's reflection appeared on the slab's 
surface, as if it had always been there and noone noticed. Amonas 
pointed and said:

“How can that be? Suddenly it.. Why?”

Hilderich's gaze was locked were he had spat.

“My blood. It tasted my blood. It knows me now as well.”

“And how did it get to 'know' me as you put it? I did not bleed.”

“How did you open the entrance?”

“I used the keystone. I pressed it, it went inside the stone 
half-way, and then just touched it and it was gone, like the 
stone had sucked it.”

“It seems it did. You touched the stone, and then this place knew 
you. I certainly do not know how, and it does sound like magic or 
what people would call 'divine powers', but it must be some kind 
of elaborate ancient technology. I knew it wasn't just a myth, 
but I had never imagined it would still be around, certainly not 
in working conditiong. And not at this scale.”

Amonas glanced upwards frowning, and then spent a few moments 
surveying the darkness, the light, and the monoloth before 
saying:

“But where is this place? Where have we been for the last few 
days? If it is ancient technology, what is it doing here? Where 
is here, Hilderich?”

“Do you really wish to know, Amonas? We could stay and find out. 
Investigate. It would be a singular chance in man's history.”

Hilderich's voice hinted at genuine passion and untold 
possibilities, real enthusiasm in his voice. Amonas looked him in 
the eyes sternly, dispassionately, almost coldly:

“No. We are going back. You can stay if you want but you won't 
get far like that.”

Hilderich nodded painfully with a grin and said:

“I was only thinking out loud. I want to go back. I have a job to 
do, didn't forget about that.”

“Well then, focus at going back. What now, Hilderich? Any ideas?”

Hilderich spared a few moments of thought and then with some 
reluctance in his voice asked Amonas:

“Could you, touch it?”

“What should I expect?”

“Nothing awful has happened so far, so I'd think that nothing 
awful will happen. Of course, there's always the possibility 
something really awful happens in the end.”

“So, I just touch it and see?”

“Well, yes. Like with the keystone.”

“Alright.”

Amonas touched the monolith without letting go of Hilderich and 
they vanished in an instant, their shapes horribly deformed and 
twisted right before a final flash of light made them disappear. 
Not an echo of them remained.





They were comfortably seated in a white, non-descript couch, in 
what would more or less pass as a common room, with a small 
table, also white in color. The predominant colour of their 
surroundings was, in fact, white, and all around them, a white 
wilderness seemed to stretch, and it was impossible to discern 
between sky or ceiling and the ground, since it all was white.

There was no visible source of light, but everything was softly 
lit, the white objects around them, like the couch and a small 
low table casting the faintest of shadows. The effect was, 
strangely enough, not disconcertin or disorienting. It all felt, 
quite normal to them, and actually soothing. A part of their 
minds was screeching in horror for it could not comprehend how 
they had ended up in this friendly but evidently inconceivable 
place.

The better part of their minds though decided to just feel 
comfortable for a change, perhaps worry about such things and 
details later. Hilderich was feeling much better, being able to 
move his arms and torso without feeling pain. No bloody coughs 
either, no sunburns, no dehydration. He was actually feeling 
quite fit, fitter than ever. He felt he could run a hundred miles 
without breaking a sweat.

Amonas, who was sitting beside him, was similarly in the best of 
shapes, feeling well beyond normalcy. He turned around to look at 
Hilderich who was still checking their surroundings and making 
sure with his hands that his ribs were in place just as he felt 
they were. Amonas took notice of Hilderich's much improved state, 
and simply said:

“You look better. I look better. This place is, great. I have a 
nagging sensation though this is extremely strange.”

“I have that feeling too. I actually think I can hear my voice in 
my head screaming loudly in protestation that we shouldn't be 
here.”

A voice from nowhere interjected suddenly, vibrant and warm, but 
somewhat stilted:

“I should be fixing that. Strong residual harmonics in the 
transitional field transmogrification phase. The effect should 
diminish soon enough.”

Amonas reaction was immediate:

“Who is this? Show yourself! Where are we?”

Hilderich remained silent. The voice was heard once more:

“The question is odd, but I am required to answer, indeed 
inclined to indulge your questioning nature. So, to answer in the 
same order: 'I' am part of a vast network of hyperdimensional 
computational self-aware matrices that effectively keep this 
whole world running. You could call me avatar, or thing, if you 
like, but that would not only make this conversation even less 
intelligent. I do not have anything to show to you as 'myself', 
since my genuine physical form is a hyperdense cloud of matter in 
an amorphous plasma state. If I did, you could possibly 
distinguish a small prickle of light the size of a hairpin. I 
like to dispense with physical form whenever possible, I find it 
serves no purpose other than easing the fears of fairly primitive 
cerebral cortices like yours. And to answer your third question, 
you could be said to exist inside the buffer matrix of the 
conveyance sub-system of the Support.”

Amonas looked at Hilderich frowning intensely, as if he had 
understood almost nothing of what he had been told, and Hilderich 
was somehow able to make sense of everything. Hilderich returned 
him a wide-eyed look that brought down Amonas hopes crashing.

“I can see you are perplexed. More like dumbfounded, actually. I 
can explain somethings if you like, others I literally cannot. 
Some, will prove unfathomable to you even if I do explain in 
length. I believe we do have some time available until the next 
conveyance.”

Hilderich looked upwards as if addressing God when he spoke next:

“The next conveyance? Could that be that you are talking about 
the fiery ball that overpasses the pyramid?”

“Your choice of words is surprisingly pertinent, though very 
crude indeed. Yes, I am talking about the conveyance of a highly 
energised, high-mass, extra-dimensional inner space, 
self-contained plasma-propelled atmospheric ballast vehicle.”

Hilderich looked as if he wanted to learn everything at once, his 
face almost split from the effort of containing his thoughts and 
questions. He managed to ask once more, while Amonas walked 
around the small white space that surrounded them:

“So it is a vehicle? I had been right all along! Amonas, we're 
going home!”

Amonas turned and grinned, and wa about to say something when the 
voice chimed in:

“Well, I happen to know the centron is devoid of human 
habitations, so I can safely conclude that you are mistaken. You 
will not be going home.”

Amonas looked at Hilderich with shock and indignation and then 
shouted, vaguely outward,at the unseen entity that had been 
talking to them for the past few minutes:

“We will not be prisoners no more! We demand to return to our 
home! You, with your ancient technology will certainly be able to 
accomodate such a want. We will pay in whatever acceptable 
currency you demand, if that is necessary. If you are in league 
with the Patriarch, we can buy back our lives.”

The voice sounded as if it sniggered, and it then added:

“Pay? Currency? Primitive indeed. You are not prisoners of any 
kind, you are merely being conveyed. All conveyance is to the 
centron, there is no other destination. If you will, it is a 
design limitation. It is not within my powers to alter that. You 
are going to the centron, that is why you entered the Pylon. Or 
maybe not. Well, you had the pass, so I had to comply. Really, 
you had no idea what you were doing, did you? Fascinating. Hasn't 
happened in a long time.”

Hilderich looked like he was suddenly drawn by something the 
voice had said. He asked with some degree of meticulousness, 
carefully, slowly:

“By pass, you must mean the keystone. What happened to it?”

“Oh, the pass will rematerialize integrally when you do.”

“What does that mean?”

“Well, it is quite uncommon to walk around with a physical form 
of the pass. I understand it could be stolen, lost, even 
destroyed under certain circumstance. So, as is the usual case, I 
took the liberty of reintegrating it in your helix, your bodies, 
in a cellular level. Much more practical that way.”

Amonas hands went to his heart and stomach instinctively, as he 
was indeed looking like he was searching for the keystone to jut 
out someplace. He shouted in anger:

“You put it inside us? What kind of devilry and sickness is this? 
Why not kill us outright and be done with us!”

Hilderich grabbed him by the arm and looked him in the eye, 
feeling his rush and white hot anger pouring out of his eyes. He 
said:

“Amonas, it's alright. I think. It's not there as a keystone. I 
think he means that it is now part of us. We are the keystone. We 
are, a keystone each, I believe.”

Amonas looked at Hilderich wide-eyed, in a further show of 
disbelief. He gasped but could not speak a word. The voice 
continued:

“You really are from a primitive civilisation. I rarely keep 
account of events on the outer shell but I was certain that at 
some point there was some quite advanced civilization active. No 
matter, millenia pass along so quickly when there's not much to 
do.”

Hilderich asked then, his mind trying to focus on what he should 
ask next, the unknowns branching off each other like a mystic 
tree, the questions gnawing at him vying to be voiced first:

“You said we exist in a buffer matrix, a system, something like 
that. What did you mean?”

“Right. It will be difficult for you to follow, perhaps you'll 
think I've stolen your souls. Your friend will surely do. Well, 
this place with the white furniture and all that light, doesn't 
look very realistic now, does it?”

Both Hilderich and Amonas nodded, though Amonas face was slowly 
building up creases of anger and perhaps even wrath. He very much 
disliked being indirectly referenced and not spoken to, 
especially when he was right there. The voice went on:

“Well it's not real. It is an energy grid field-inducing 
construct. Think of it as a temporary room for your minds. All 
this is in your mind, for the sake of understanding. Your bodies 
are, right now, non-existent. You have been disintegrated into a 
complete series of information. You have been thoroughly, 
digitally and quantically, deconstructed, in order to be 
reconstructed, at the place of your destination, which is the 
centron. The ballast vehicle will provide the actual 
transportation of the total information via quantum entanglement 
on board. Somehow ineffective, I know, but I did not design this 
system, I have to insist on that.”

Hilderich was puzzled. Amonas was beyond puzzled and the total 
sum of unknown and impossible to believe or comprehend things had 
already overcome his tolerances. Instead of boiling in anger, he 
simply gave up and let Hilderich do the talking, since he seemed 
to understand some of what they were being told. He lied down on 
the couch, and closed his eyes, as if he was about to sleep.

“So you are telling us we have no bodies? We have become, 
something like ghosts? Or angels? Beings of pure energy and 
light?”

“Ghosts and angels is definetely the wrong picture here, quaint 
but wrong. Pure energy and light is kind of superfluous, so let's 
just say light. Yes, right now you are made of light. Kind of.”

“Is that somehow similar to how the pillar of light that brought 
us here in the first place works like?”

There was a small pause, as if the voice took a while to gestate 
what it had been asked, like it found the answer difficult or 
somehow restricted.

“I don't understand what you are talking about.”

Hilderich swung around to look at Amonas, who had now opened his 
eyes and was looking back at Hilderich, exchanging glances of 
disapproval and disbelief.

Hilderich insisted:

“The white pillar of light that brought us to this world of 
yours? Somewhere in the opposite direction of the sun? A small 
crest overlooking the forests?”

“Perhaps you are confused. This is the same world. Ah, perhaps 
you are referring to the service matter transference beams. I can 
see that could be interpreted as such, yes. Yes, it does work 
quite the same way. Though these service beams do not have a 
buffer matrix. You simply pop in, and pop out the other way. 
Instant. While here time is a.. ohh, will you look at the time. 
Well, enough talking. Pleasure to be of assistance, though I'd 
have hoped for a brighter conversation.”

The voice stopped, and suddenly the scenery around them became 
dark. Amonas was no longer lying down on a couch and he felt he 
was floating in mid-air, the darkness all consuming. He called 
out to Hilderich, but no answer came, then in an instant he saw a 
flashing bright well of swaths of light passing by him in 
horrific speeds. He could see no hands indees he felt 
disembodied, unable to move. The well shot past him and now he 
was looking at little bright pin prickle of blue light, like a 
lonely star at night. Before he could see what it was. It came 
rushing at him, filling his entire field of vision, glistening on 
his every sense, a blue-white hot light engulfing him, as it was 
ready to devour him whole. He tried to shield himself, he felt 
like turning his back around and running. But he was more than 
unable. He had no body to flee with.




  A dead tree gives no shelter

The Pilgrim aroused Molo from his fretful sleep with a nudge. 
Molo woke up with a gasp, his body tense, his face and palms 
sweaty.

The Pilgrim thought his brother was troubled, as he had been for 
the last two nights. It was as if the spirits of the land and sky 
were not in his dreams, safekeeping him from the malevolence of 
the archenemy.

He would pray for his brother at dawn, perhaps something else was 
troubling him. Some lover, or wife. His children. He couldn't 
know yet, he wasn't learning his brother's tongue as fast as he 
could. But he had understood his pilgrimage was different. The 
had taken the same path, for the same reasons, but there were 
different customs to be obeyed.

Perhaps, his brother was unlucky enough to have a wife and 
children that he had needed to leave behind. Perhaps a lover was 
awaiting his return. That might be the reason he suffered at 
night. He embraced his brothers arms reassuringly, and he nodded.

He started walking again, towards the direction the walking stone 
pointed to. The night was chilly but dry, the desert a harsh, 
rocky field of red and brown, good enough for walking, but 
useless for everything else.

Very little was to be found in the way of a shelter, and water as 
scarce as snow flakes in the summer. And little more than 
burrowing furry creatures and small sand lizards in the way of 
eating. God provided, as ever, but his brother was uneasy with 
what they were able to gather. At first, he would not even taste 
the food, even when cooked on fire.

When hunger took over him though, he mellowed, and grew wiser to 
the ways of God in his Holy place. Still, he seemed to be 
somewhat reserved in his adoration, somewhat aloof at times, his 
mind wandering at times. He could hear him sometimes speak in his 
native tongue, other times in the tongue of the Pilgrim's people.

In his sleep, he talked as well. He could not make much, though 
he sometimes spoke of the Forge of Stones. He is young, I'll give 
him that, thought the Pilgrim. He has not yet had the time to 
fully embrace God in his true, purest, unblemished form. Here, in 
his Holy Land, where he is most welcome, were his Truth sublimes 
us all, even the rock and sand. He would learn though.

The Pilgrim saw in him a fervency, an ardour. He saw the 
determined glitter in his eyes, the way he looked at the Path, 
the awe when facing the suns setting over where His Gardens lay. 
He was worthy of the travel, and the peril. He was a brother sent 
from God, indeed. Though his brother's purpose was still to be 
revealed, the Pilgrim knew his own was renewed, that he would act 
as this man's mentor, tutor, as a wise and benevolent father, to 
fill his heart and mind with the joy that was God and Truth.

The Pilgrim's heart burned with vigor and his mind raced in these 
warm thoughts of God and His work and plan. He was so enthralled 
with what God had in stock for them both, that he had barely 
noticed his brother was not walking alongside him. He checked 
behind him, and he could not make out his figure in the blooming 
moonlight. He must have fallen asleep again, the Pilgrim thought.

So he walked back, over the small sandy crest where they had 
curled and laid to sleep. He would be cold now that there was no 
godstone to bring them light and heat and comfort. I should have 
been more thorough when I woke him, the Pilgrim thought, while he 
walked with a sure pace, slowly climbing to the top of the crest.

There, he saw him sleeping, serenely this time. The Pilgrim 
momentarily thought he should leave him be for a little while 
longer, but the moon had been up for sometime now, and they had 
to take advantage of the night as best as they could. When the 
suns rose again in the morning, the heat and the cloudless sky 
would make traversing the desert an insufferable affair.

They should be at the Dunes by morning, where the sea of sand 
could claim a man's life if he wasn't ready for its tribulations. 
God would provide, but man should be wary as ever. Many Pilgrims 
before him perished while traversing the Dunes, and left nothing 
but bleached bone as a warning to those that came after them.

The Pilgrim shook Molo more violently this time, making sure he 
would wake up, stand on his feet and walk with him. It was for 
their own good, and the good of the Pilgrimage. It would not 
serve God if they tarried and indulged themselves. That was one 
of the lessons his brother had still to learn.

Molo stirred and moaned a complain, something unintelligible even 
if the Pilgrim could understand his language. He rose from the 
ground wearily, languidly, and put a hand out as if letting the 
Pilgrim know he was really awake this time. He said in low 
Helican, the commoners' tongue, signs of exasperation in his 
face, a disgruntled voice:

“I'm up. I'm up, you heartless driver. Don't you get tired? Don't 
you need to sleep? I guess you're used to this sort of thing. 
When will we be getting there? Do you really know or are we 
wandering aimlessly? You still don't understand a single word, 
right?”

The Pilgrim smiled and made the hand gesture for 'God will 
provide', turned around and started walking, faintly motioning 
Molo to follow him with a flick of one wrist. Molo sighed wearily 
and started walking behind the Pilgrim, in a disheartened 
fashion, almost shuffling his feet, kicking up small clouds of 
fine dust in the process.

The Pilgrim said something that Molo could not understand 
perfectly, something about the weary man finding consolation in 
God's plan, but he wasn't sure that was a proper translation. The 
man spoke High Helican, but it was somewhat mutated over the 
years probably, flex and intonation varied from the original.

Maybe it was the other way around, maybe the High Helican Molo 
had learned was the mutated form, but it mattered little since 
the only thing the man ever talked about was God, his plan, and 
this Pilgrimage he was on. That was alright, he didn't care if 
the Pilgrim was a half-mad ascetic fanatic, as long as he brought 
him to the Necropolis. Then, he would see what he might do with 
him. Perhaps he knew more than he let on from time to time about 
the place. He talked of gardens and a citadel, of a forge of 
somekind.

He'd stick around, as long as he proved useful for. If they ever 
got there, that was. They had been wandering farther into the 
desert for a couple of days now. The had left the marble road 
behind two nights before, and that was about the time when Molo 
had run out of food. Perhaps the man had saved their lives, with 
his uncanny ability to find food in such a forlorn and 
unhospitable place.

Though lizards and rats were not real food, it somehow became 
agreeable when one had not eaten in three days, and the smell of 
cooked meat wafted into his nostrils. Molo shuddered at the 
memory of Pilgrim cutting the lizard's head off, skinning it, and 
eating it raw, limb to limb. The man was a savage, that much was 
certain, but he somehow knew more about the Widelands than any 
man alive. The man had only identified himself as 'Pilgrim', but 
that much was enough for Molo to call him by when the need arose.

They were walking through a rocky desert, passing through low 
crests sometime, their direction unchanging. From what Molo could 
gather from where the suns rose and fell each day, they were 
walking roughly towards the northeast, and that seemed logical. 
The terrain had progressed from a rough savannah, into this rocky 
desert, and it seemed like soon they were about to enter the 
great sand dunes he had read about in Esphalon's accounts.

And from then on he'd be almost lost. Esphalon had written down 
that once they entered the sand dunes, the pack mules they had 
brought with them died, choking to death in a sand storm they 
themselves barely escaped alive through sheer luck and perhaps, 
as Esphalon put it, providence. That was when they met the girl, 
that went on to lead them to the Necropolis per se, which they 
had failed to enter after fruitless labors of days.

The girl was the one who sustained them through these perils, 
producing food and water out of what seemed to be thin air. That 
was not all though: The girl was quite insistent in preventing 
them in their efforts to enter the Necropolis proper, what 
Esphalon described as 'a gargantuan cluster of megalithic 
buildings that either shone or absorbed light, tightly packed 
together, as if they were wood on a basket, encircled by a wall 
that itself defied logic, in size, shape, and function'.

She had even used some kind of invisible force on them, on more 
than one occasion. She had began to weep and talk incessantly, 
begging them to halt their efforts, as she 'pushed us away from 
what could have been an entrance point to the dead city, what 
Master Umberth called a Necropolis. She did not seem to be angry 
or wrathful because of our attempts, but rather terrified, 
pleading with us to leave the place'.

Molo hoped the Pilgrim would be much more helpful in that 
respect. After all, he had told him he had to enter the Holy 
Gardens, and pay his respects in the Citadel of God, reaffirm his 
people's faith in him, and be rewarded with the Forge of Stones. 
Those were the exact words he used, in perfectly proper High 
Helican.

To Molo that sounded like the man was planning to enter what 
Umberth had dubbed the Necropolis of the Widelands. Indeed, he 
was not simply planning it, but was driven by a religious fervour 
Molo had not seen even in the Ministers of the Pantheon, or the 
most pious and faithful of lowly people that clung to such 
notions like a man about to drown clinging on a driftwood. This 
Pilgrim, was different.

His faith drove him, inspired him, made him determined, 
unwavering. The contrast with the Ministers of the Pantheon was 
sharp: they instilled fear, caution, piety, obeisance, misery. A 
faithful man for Molo was a fool, a person reduced to a muttering 
idiot who felt the Gods were in his favor if his children were 
not taken away from him, and his crops were not dying of thirst 
or the cold of winter.

The moon was high above them now, the shadows it cast hard and 
short of stature, the only mark in the horizon the outlines of 
the small crests they had left behind. All around them the land 
was still, not even the sounds of scurrying desert rats, or the 
rush of the wind from a night gale. All he could hear was their 
feet on dirt and sand, and perhaps the sound of gravel on gravel, 
as they trod their feet over patches of it.

He had noticed how much his boots were worn out by now. It was 
not the many miles he had travelled until he met the marble road 
that had made them so. It was the relatively few days he had been 
walking in the Widelands, that had made him feel he should've 
packed a pair of boots with him. The hot days and chilly nights 
had put some stress on the boots' leather skin, but t was the 
asperity of this place, this outer desert, the abrasive nature of 
the rocky ground, the mix of dust, sand, dirt and gravel that had 
made his boots little less than sheets of leather about to slit 
themselves open.

It remained a mystery to Molo how the Pilgrim seemed to be 
unperturbed by the roughness of the terrain, the adverse 
conditions, and the unforgiving miles he had walked to get here 
in he first place. As far as he knew, his people were nomads, 
living in the cold, harsh tundras of the north. It was 
understandable that he would be proficient in survival skills, 
but his ability to adapt to changes in climate and terrain must 
be one of a kind.

But there were also the strange stones Molo had noticed the 
Pilgrim carries with him. They were small stones, but regularly 
shaped, as if they were cut by human hands, on purpose. They were 
dark green, with violet and cyan lights flashing in the morning 
suns, their surface smooth but with mysterious shapes looming 
right below, like patterns that kept moving each time you looked 
at one.

One of the stones the Pilgrim uses as a guide, for getting his 
direction straightened out. Molo had noticed that every time the 
Pilgrim used it, always after offering praise to his God and 
praying, he slightly changed course, as if adjusting to what the 
stone showed him. Molo deduced that the stone points him somehow 
to the direction of the Necropolis.

He had briefly entertained the idea of killing the Pilgrim and 
getting the guiding stone off him, but had decided against that 
because he believed he would be much more useful to actually 
enter the Necropolis, rather than just reaching it. The other 
stone was much more interesting, Molo thought.

It was what the Pilgrim used for shelter in this forsaken land, 
and probably something his people also used to stay alive in the 
harsh tundras of the north. The stone was a marvellous object: It 
offered them a small glowing light, enough to see each other's 
face, and it exuded warmth, but unlike a fire, the warmth did not 
seem to radiate from the stone. It felt as if they were enclosed 
in a bubble of sorts, where pleasant warmth occupied it, and the 
sounds and the wind outside were kept at bay.

Indeed, as if they were suddenly put inside an invisible bubble 
of glass, protective and mindful of their basic comfort. From 
what he had seen, he believed that whatever the conditions 
outside, such a stone could keep them warm and dry, exactly what 
a human body would need to stay alive in any climate. Molo 
thought of the stone as a fantastic artifact of mysterious 
origins and unheard of qualities, in the hands of a savage that 
could barely use a wheel, if in fact he had ever seen one in his 
life.

But Molo felt there was probably so much more he could learn from 
the Pilgrim. So many mysteries that could be unraveled just 
because the Pilgrim knew these things, like he had always known 
them. As if it were rote, custom, and legend that was passed on 
from generation to generation.

Molo thought more about how the Pilgrim had introduced himself at 
first, and remembered that he had referred to himself as 'a' 
Pilgrim. Which meant that there were others. Or had been others 
in the past. He had not broached the subject because when he did 
ask the Pilgrim about things, even about relatively simple things 
like what will they eat or when will they stop for a break, the 
answers he received from the Pilgrim were nothing short of 
enigmatic, or occluded by religious reverence and pious deference 
to God and his plan.

Molo thought that asking him about his Pilgrimage would make the 
man erupt in a series of prayers and gestures, long recitals of 
stories and tradition as well as many other minutiae that would 
only complicate his efforts at understanding whatever useful 
information and knowledge this Pilgrim could offer.

He believed that it was best he gathered what the Pilgrim would 
share without knowing, and infer knowledge from that alone. When 
the time came, perhaps he could press him for more, or outright 
do away with him. He did not think the Pilgrim could be extorted 
with fear or driven to betray his beliefs, especially know that 
he was on a holy mission, a Pilgrimage.

Even if his life was forfeit, he would rather think himself as a 
martyr, a holy failure. In that regard, Molo had to endure his 
presence, and learn as much from him as possible through what 
little interaction they had. Truthfully, Molo did not think he 
would have been able to survive the tribulations of the desert 
had it not been for the Pilgrim and his stones.

He grinned when he thought that how ironic it would be that in 
the end, it was most likely that the man he had saved, would take 
away his life. When he did so, the Pilgrim had turned around to 
check up on how far behind he was, noticed the grin, and smiled 
with puzzlement and naivety. Molo took the chance to build more 
of a rapproachment with the Pilgrim, something he could use later 
on.

He remembered that according to Esphalon, the moonlit nights were 
held as having special significance to his people, for some 
reason he had not stayed long enough to decipher and understand. 
He had noted down how they paid homage though, which was by 
turning to face the moon, kneel down with folded arms and kiss 
the ground. That last part made Molo uneasy for a moment, but he 
proceeded to do so.

When he rose again, he saw the Pilgrim was wearing a sad 
expression on his face, as if he was sorrowful all the while. 
That made Molo try to copy his mood, as if such was the 
appropriate thing to do. He suddenly looked sullen and 
respectful, just like the Pilgrim. He noticed then that the 
Pilgrim simply told him a single word: 'apalgos'. He then bowed 
his head and made the sign of God, and resumed his walk as normal 
as ever.

Molo had not known that word, never saw it in scripts or texts, 
and seemed to have no other common root or sound like something 
he could understand. It was as if the word was new, or his 
vocabulary incomplete. It baffled him, and made a mental note to 
himself to perhaps ask the man to describe it. 

He had seen how the Pilgrim had reacted when he had by error used 
the word 'Gods' instead of 'God', and he had known the man was 
dangerously fanatical. It would not serve him well to have to 
kill him if he found out he was not a fellow believer as the 
Pilgrim believed. He used the word 'our' when referring to God, 
as well as 'brother' and 'believer' when referring to Molo. Molo 
had never thought that learning High Helican would ever be of 
such a use in his life's quest.

The Pilgrim felt he understood his brother better now. Everything 
made much more sense, if the man was on a journey of sorrow. It 
was only natural if he was grieving that he'd be troubled in his 
sleep, aloof sometimes, disenchanted and forgetful in his 
devotions.

In a way, the Pilgrim thought, it was even harder on him, having 
lost a loved one on such a day, to walk through the Land of God, 
with its many trials, and hidden dangers of the mind and soul. It 
was indeed a mixed sign for the Pilgrim: a grieving man on the 
Land of God that needed guidance and help to make it through 
alive and be free of his sorrow, along with a Pilgrim that needed 
something to focus lest he stray from the path of Truth, and fail 
his people and his God.

He had not heard of such a Pilgrimage before. He felt like the 
moonlight shone upon him with the brightness of his God's light. 
He felt inundated with honor and love. He felt wary of such 
sudden rushes of strong feelings, and breathed slowly, carefully 
rearranging his thoughts and feeling to protect him from the sins 
of pride and arrogance.

It was in God's hand alone the manner in which his Pilgrimage 
would take place, and that was all that he needed to know. It did 
not mean he was special. It meant that he carried a special 
burden, and had a special purpose in life. Himself, he was but a 
man of God, as was his brother. They both had their reasons to 
walk this path. He felt reassured now, and he troubled his mind 
with such no more.

They walked in silence from then on, until their legs were sore 
and their throats dry. In the middle of the night, with nothing 
but the moon light and the stars to shine upon their eyes and let 
them find their way, revelling in a divine solitude, the Pilgrim 
stopped walking, and gestured for Molo to do the same, with a 
repetitive downward motion of his hand.

He did not like to use the words of God in His Holy Land in vain, 
or for mundane things such as simple communication. He found the 
hand gestures and nods to be enough, and his brother understood 
most of the time. He was also mindful of using the Holy Tongue, 
and only did so after he had done so himself.

Sometimes he spoke in this other tongue of his, a somewhat crude, 
harsh tongue, that seemed to resemble the Holy Tongue somewhat, 
but was very far from it. Maybe it was a way to speak a form of 
his tongue without speaking the Holy Tongue vainly. Maybe their 
tribe was older, and their customs still clung to the time before 
the Purge, whereas they, the God's chosen children, had been 
instructed in different ways.

It was a miracle indeed to find another believer, another man of 
God, whose people had survived the Purge, so far away. The wise 
men had always said that God works in mysterious ways, and lo and 
behold, a brother long lost is found wandering in God's Holy 
Land. The Pilgrim thought to himself that if that was not an act 
of God, then all this was nothing but a fantasy woven in his 
head.

But it was real, as real as his purpose, as real as the True 
Path, as real as anything he had believed in since he was born. 
He was sitting down, legs woven together, when all those feeling 
of certainty and faith, the warm knowledge of God's plan working 
so delicately through him, left him with a smile on his face, 
tears welling in his eyes. He held those tears, feeling he would 
be misjudged by his brother, and that would only serve further to 
his befuddlement, whereas he should be enlightening him by action 
alone.

The Pilgrim offered Molo his leather flask, filled with water 
they had gathered from a meaty, barbed plant, its juices nothing 
more than water. Soon though it seemed to Molo, they would be 
entering the real no man's land, where nothing ever grew, and the 
only change was the shifting of the dunes, slaved to the whims of 
the wind. Molo accepted the flask with a nod, sipped cautiously 
and dived in a sea of thoughts.

Esphalon's tales of this part of the Widelands, the inner desert 
were sparse, and yielded little information. They were mainly 
concerned about the lack of water and the sandstorm that had 
almost killed them and denied them of most of their supplies and 
all their animals. It was a race for survival, and the telling of 
Esphalon focused more on how their lives were coming to an end 
day by day, rather than anything really useful about their 
survival.

It was the girl that had actually saved them, if that indeed was 
fact and not mere fiction or the wild imaginings of a man brought 
to the brink of death. In any case, he would have to trust the 
Pilgrim on their survival. Unfortunately, he had not seen yet the 
Pilgrim use a stone that would produce food or water like the 
girl in Esphalon's account presumably did.

He had no idea how they would make it further into the desert, 
closer to the Necropolis. But he strongly believed that the 
Pilgrim was somehow prepared for the ordeal, much better than he 
could ever be. It was ironic, Molo thought, that a man that bears 
a grudging disbelief against all sorts of divine creatures and 
indeed faith itself, has such a strong belief in a man wholly 
devoted to a fantastic person, a lingering myth from an older 
civilisation.

It was very opportune that at that specific moment, the Pilgrim 
rose again and asked for his flask. Molo drank once more, a 
greedy gulp running down his throat, refreshing and invigorating, 
exactly what he needed for the rest of the walk. They seemed to 
have a few hours until the sun rose, and from their brief period 
of rest Molo assumed the Pilgrim was not planning on making any 
other stops. That was just as good, since the more they walked 
through this landscape, the less time they would have to spend in 
this treacherous desert, and the sooner they would arrive at 
their destination.

They started off once more, and trudged onwards, Molo right 
behind the Pilgrim. They were silent again as ever, and after a 
couple of hours weariness and boredom overcame Molo. His pace 
lessened and soon the distance between him and the Pilgrim began 
to grow. The Pilgrim took notice at some point, paused, and urged 
him onwards with motions from his arms and nods from his head. He 
pointed at the moon that had started to sink lower and lower. It 
meant that dawn was near, and they'd soon stop, rest and sleep. 
Molo gathered what little of his stamina remained, and with 
painful effort picked up his pace for one last time that day.

Soon, the colours of dawn were starting to paint the sky. In a 
matter of minutes, the suns would make their bright entrance and 
wash away the night. The Pilgrim stopped then, and beckoned Molo 
to come sit right next to him. 

They were atop a rather wide crested hill of rock and dirt, with 
coarse sand covering its very ridge. Molo indulged the Pilgrim 
and as he climbed the last few feet, he saw the sand dunes before 
him, eating away at the horizon, the crests of the dunes like 
waves of sand, their ever-changing nature imperceptible to the 
naked eye.

A thin line of blood red, sun yellow and sea blue hung between 
the sky and the desert. It was the break of dawn, and the Pilgrim 
seemed to marvel at the sight, which Molo could not help thinking 
was indeed a sight to leave a man speechless. The Pilgrim made 
his morning prayers, and Molo followed suit, as had been the case 
since they met on the marble road.

Then, he started looking around him as if searching for something 
that he had dropped. He moved over to a patch of sand a few steps 
away, and with deliberate movements of his hands, he began 
digging into the sand with his bare hands. Molo frowned in 
puzzlement at this weird behavior, which topped everything the 
man had done so far.

Molo was even more surprised, when the man briefly paused 
digging, turned around and nodded to Molo for help. Molo could 
not even imagine the purpose of the Pilgrim's toils and he 
thought this entire scene to be acutely comical and would have 
made him laugh profoundly if he had not been part of it. He 
acquiesced though, and soon enough found himself to be digging 
right beside the Pilgrim.

Within a few moments, he felt the sand damp under his palms. 
Perhaps, there was reason in this, and the reason was water. Soon 
enough, a grinned formed in his face, while the Pilgrim remained 
apathetic, almost indifferent. They jad dug out a small hole in 
the sand, where there was enough water to fill their flasks, and 
perhaps drink a handful each. It was downright astonishing that 
the man simply peered through the sand and found a spot where 
water was only two feet underneath.

He could have never guessed such a thing for the life of him. The 
Pilgrim was proving his value to Molo with each passing day, and 
he couldn't help but feel genuine respect for the man, even 
though he suspected there had to be some aid from the stone, 
albeit he had not seen him use one right then and there.

When their flasks where filled and they had some water to drink, 
the Pilgrim motioned for Molo to sit in a somewhat flat space of 
sand. As he did so, he brought out his shelter stone, and set it 
down roughly between them. He made the sign of god, and laid 
down, with his back to Molo. Soon enough, the air felt pleasantly 
warm. The suns came up, two blinding spots of light walking hand 
in hand, rising across a violet-blue coloured sky. Pretty soon, 
daylight became too bright for the naked eye to handle, but where 
the stone lay, it was pleasantly dusky, and one could actually 
close his eyes and fall asleep. Molo noticed the Pilgrim had 
already done that, the outline of his rising and falling ribs 
following the rhythm of his breathing, slow, deep, and steady. 
Molo thought to himself he might actually leave the man be, when 
the time came. 'After all, what harm could he do when the secrets 
of the Necropolis will be laid bare to me', Molo thought.





They had slept away most the day. When Molo woke up, it was to 
the recently-made familiar smell of cooked reptile meat. The 
Pilgrim was handling the roasting of the meat on his knife 
expertly. Curiously, Molo noticed for the first time it was a 
knife with a strangely fashioned two-edged blade: one was 
serrated and the other seemed to be razor sharp.

The knife seemed to be made of steel or a similar metal, perhaps 
even silver, but that could not explain how it had been able to 
weather time without being reduced to little more than a useless 
piece of metal. And it seemed certainly implausible that a tribe 
of nomads on the brink of savagery could have fashioned a finely 
crafted blade without expert knowledge, foundries, forges and 
artisans capable of supreme craftsmanship.

He concluded in his mind that the knife must be a thing of a long 
forgotten past, a treasured relic handed down from one generation 
to the next, indeed crafted by a civilisation like the one that 
had erected the Necropolis.

It was fascinating to witness an ancient relic wielded like a 
common utensil, nothing more than a tool, when it's value to 
knowledge and the unlocking of hitherto unexplainable mysteries 
was incalculable. Molo realised he had been staring at the knife 
for too long, his sight out of focus, as if he was still drowsy 
from sleep, as if his mind raced to meet the dreamworld it had 
unjustly been forced to escape.

The Pilgrim jogged him back into reality with a slap on the 
shoulder that he must have considered an expression of 
brotherhood and amicability towards him. Molo noticed he was also 
offering him the knife with the piece of unknown meat on it, 
charred somewhat on the edges and slightly curled, as if it had 
been roasted on the fire for too long.

Molo thought about inquiring about the origin of the meat, but 
quickly his inquisitiveness dissipated into a forlorn hope that 
some of the desert was populated by hares or something equally 
less hideous than lizards. The smile on the Pilgrim's face 
assured him of how wildly imaginative he had become concerning 
food during the past few days, and grudgingly decided to feed on 
whatever the Pilgrim had caught.

In reality, he thought it was quite important to never know what 
it was that the Pilgrim had offered him, especially since it 
tasted much better than the previous things he had been forced to 
taste by necessity. The thought of actually beginning to enjoy 
desert-hunted reptilian wildlife made his shiver with disgust at 
himself for even thinking of abasing himself in such a barbaric 
way.

Momentarily, the memory of some exquisite sautée veel liver 
assaulted his senses, and he could almost smell its fine taste 
and texture against his palate. He felt certain he could kill a 
man for a glass of Fironian dry white. But all that was just 
tricks of the mind. He knew he was eating something that was 
meant to crawl and slither instead of walk, fly, or swim.

The illusion though, when maintained in his mind, was a shelter 
for his mind. A way for him to ignore the nuances of survival, 
and proceed to complete his aim, and purpose. And on that day, he 
knew he was so much closer. The sand dunes beckoned before them, 
and it would take much more than the mere lack of luxury to 
prevent him from the most wortwhile of goals.

Once his hunger was satisfied, he took a swig of water from his 
own flask and rolled it around his mouth in an effort to wash 
down the uncannily chicken-like meat. Then, noticing that the 
eyes of the Pilgrim were lost in the sea of sand, he sat for 
awhile idly gazing at the dunes, trying to make out anything 
worth noticing in the amorphous dune crests.

He felt that they should be moving on right away, but the usually 
relentless Pilgrim had quietened down and was sitting still and 
cross-legged on the warm sand, the shelter stone nowhere in 
sight. To Molo, it looked as if he was basking in the light of 
the suns, like the lizard he must have deftly caught with nothing 
but his knife.

He was serene, his face almost glowing from within. It was like 
looking at a man who thought his existence was made just and fair 
by virtue of his devotion to his God, his Truth, his Path. Molo 
felt like the man was actually basking in a swath of divine 
light, his God's gift, a warm and bright light that could fill a 
man's soul to the brim, and yet could not possibly be spilled.

Molo thought those were very strange feelings, and he could not 
understand how they had suddenly appeared unbidden. He felt a 
strange kind of sympathy for the Pilgrim, one he could not put 
down in all detail. Something evaded him, and though such 
feelings were not totally unknown to Molo, he had spent a great 
deal of his life hurtling them aside, uncovering the truth 
underneath such deceit of the heart and soul, and ascribing the 
true logic behind such manifestations of the human psyche.

In this case, he was struggling to accept the fact that he had no 
easy answers, indeed no answers at all. The Pilgrim was a mystery 
that defied Molo's reason, since he was unable to fathom why this 
man exuded this air of spirituality, of homeliness, of trust. 
These were feelings that Molo had years ago cast aside and 
attributed to man's various futile efforts at making sense of the 
world and his existence, making up emotions in the way.

But here he lay, a savage man with no ties to such trappings of 
the civilised man, a pilgrim that somehow managed to cripple his 
mind with nothing but a smile and a prayer. Perhaps, Molo 
thought, these are side-effects of malnourishment and 
dehydration, a prelude to hallucination. Perhaps, there is 
something very strange about this Pilgrim. Or, he admitted 
reluctantly in his mind, he might have been wrong in some of his 
assertions about various things he had vowed never to revisit 
again.

The Pilgrim's pull on his shoulder brought him to world of the 
senses once more. He could see the falling suns, their glare 
losing its strength as they slowly glided past the sea of sand 
into a thin velvet horizon of scarlet and violet blue. His 
nostrils were assaulted by the grains of sand that were starting 
to float wildly in the air, and he felt his mouth filled with the 
salt of the earth under his feet. He looked towards the northeast 
where their path would take them and all he could see was the 
ashen gray and dull brown-yellow of what he judged to be a cloud 
made of sand. And it they were going to walk right through it, if 
his sight was as clear as his mind at that moment. The notion 
rang a deep bell of life-threatening danger that superseded every 
other thought, feeling and intention. The writings of Esphalon 
came to his mind, where he had written down about the sandstorm 
that almost killed them and left them hapless to roam the desert 
in vain:

'..clouds the size of mountains no man had never even imagined 
toppled the reign of the suns and cast them down into the night 
side of the world. The air was suddenly thick with dirt and cold 
as a deadman's touch, heavy with the sand and stone of the desert 
sea. 

We made haste to what seemed like a rocky alcove in the distance, 
barely visible under the gusps of sand that harrowed the very air 
we draw breath from. The mules would not budge, no matter how 
much we pulled and pushed them. As the wind grew more intense, 
and sand began to hurt our very skin, we had to abandon them to 
their fate, mindful to take as much water and food as haste 
allowed.

We hid under that alcove, while a maddened storm raged just 
beyond the reach of our palms. A couple of feet separated us from 
the unwavering madness of this uncaring place that assaulted any 
form of life with the same deliberate indignation. For hours on 
end, all our senses were of no use, except from ears. The howling 
sounds of the sandstorm ruled supreme, whipping the very earth, 
tormenting the sky, challenging the moon for the reign of night 
eternal itself.

When exactly the storm had died down, we knew not. All we could 
see was the moonlight shining upon the desert once more, as if 
nothing of import had occured. It mattered not that the 
clean-picked bones of our mules told otherwise. That was the 
Widelands, and life had no place there.'

The words of Esphalon coiled in his mind like a snake, ready to 
leap out from his mouth. He saw the Pilgrim was already putting 
some distance between them. He called out to him in High Helican 
so he could understand him without needs for further 
explanations:

“A storm is coming! We will die in there!”

The Pilgrim then turned around and looked at Molo as if he had 
uttered a nonsensical statement. Briefly, Molo thought he had 
mispronounced what he had meant to say, and his words carried no 
meaning to the Pilgrim. A moment passed though, and the Pilgrim 
stroked his beard and nodded knowingly. He gestured for Molo to 
hurry up and come closer, fill the distance, while he set out 
again. Perhaps he had an explanation, or had already seen a place 
that could shield them from the approaching clouds that could 
grind anything alive down to the bone. When Molo caught up with 
the Pilgrim a few moments later, he grabbed him by the arm and 
forced him to stop, asking him in High Helican:

“What will we do about the storm?”

To which the Pilgrim replied with a gaze to the sky and the sign 
of God.

Molo was now losing his temper. This man must be mad, he thought. 
His mind raced with the possibility that this man was indeed mad 
from the beginning and had somehow made a journey of thousand of 
miles only to offer himself as sacrifice or something equally 
idiotic like killing himself because he had sinned.

But no, that was not the case, Molo decided. He looked at his 
calm, serene face as he turned to face the sky and praise his God 
solemnly, and knew that he had a solution, he had an answer to 
this enigma. He was certain of it, and his determination proved 
it somehow. There was nothing to be afraid, everything is 
accounted for. It will be alright, no reason to worry.

These were the words that streamed through Molo's mind, and it 
felt as if the Pilgrim was the source, the reason for these 
thoughts. He seemed now to Molo like an unyielding, irresistable 
beacon of hope, unmoving as mountain, stable as rock, a haven for 
any troubled soul. His gaze was not hard as it was before.

He relaxed his grip on the arm of the Pilgrim, and his jaw 
slackened. The dust was beginning to swirl around them, the sand 
getting in their mouths, trying to bore through their skin. It 
was a very strange feeling for Molo, surrendering himself, body 
and mind, to an illogical notion. He stood there, transfixed, the 
Pilgrim knelt down before him, facing the approaching sandstorm 
head on, while all around them the makings of a whirlwind 
abounded.

Molo had mysteriously let go of his prohibitions, of his logical 
and analytical mind, of his reasoning and his fears, and just 
trusted the Pilgrim. It was all a matter of trust, here in the 
Winterlands, as far as he could tell. And he had decided to trust 
the man, with his life, and ultimately his purpose in life as 
well. Which of the two he valued most, he sincerely could not 
tell by now.

The Pilgrim had knelt down, seeing his brother was filled with 
fear, worry, doubt. It would be no different to God, for if he 
had deemed that he should live, he would live, and his brother 
with him. If he had deemed that he should die, and they should 
perish, and that would be the end of their lives, for better or 
for worse.

But to appease his brother, and make him ready for the coming 
trial, the trial of their souls, he would pray. He would pray 
loudly, fervently, with ardour and passion. He would sing praise 
to God, with all the power his lungs could afford, and he would 
ask for forgiveness for their sins, known and unknown, willing 
and unwilling.

He would ask of his God to deliver them, but he would also offer 
his life and soul as a last service, of his own volition, if so 
God wished of him. He would speak on behalf of his brother, and 
plead for his salvation, body and soul, because he was a grieving 
man, born of pain and want, not a sinner whose mind was set, 
neither a blasphemer who thought himself beyond the reach of God.

He would pray, until the storm had passed and their God had 
decreed their souls clean, unyielding, fit for a human being. And 
his brother would pray with him. He turned around and saw his 
brother was also kneeling down, his eyes closed, his hands buried 
in the sand. The sky was now bleak, the front of the sand storm 
coming to greet them head on, the suns almost drowned in its dark 
grey wave.

He turned around then, and touched his brother's arms, who was 
already doing as he should. He shuddered slightly at his touch, 
and then started crying, in fervor or in fear, the Pilgrim could 
not honestly tell. And then he started chanting, his clear voice 
challenging the howls of the rising wind, cutting a clean path 
through the hurtling sands towards the heart of the storm. And 
the wind grew louder and stronger, and the sands started to tear 
at their skin, lashing them like razor sharp tufts of steel 
grass.

And then, while the voice of the Pilgrim went on unwavering, 
seeking God, asking him to reach down from where he dwelt and 
lift them from their fatal fate, the suns could be seen in their 
last streak of light, for once more hiding until the morning 
came, leaving behind them a lukewarm trace of violet, stars 
already visible on the edges between sky and earth. And the storm 
had cleared, dissolved, like God had simply wished it away.

The wind fell into a light breeze, and the sands quietened down, 
and became still as the night that had just arrived. The Pilgrim 
made the sign of God, and stood upwards, gesturing for Molo to 
follow him. He even offered him his hands, which he rarely did, 
as he thought it was unbecoming of a man.

His brother was still on his knees, and had just opened his eyes. 
Without warning, he saw tears running down on his cheeks, the 
look of a man who was blind and could now see again on his face. 
His brother made the sign of God, this time somehow different 
than before. It was quite possible, the Pilgrim thought, that his 
brother was beginning to learn how to love God properly, like any 
man should.

He pulled him up by his hands and they both walked away into the 
night. Now that the trial of the storm had passed, they should be 
able to see the Gates by tomorrow night, when the moon would be 
empty once more, and nothing but starlight would shine upon the 
sacred walls. He briefly considered telling him, but he thought 
he already knew. Why else, the Pilgrim asked himself, would he be 
carrying no guiding stone? It was because he knew. Because God 
had sent him.




  Fear in a handful of dust

They were banging at the door, he could hear them getting ready 
to bring it down. There was not much he could do, other than take 
the flight of stairs to the upper floor, and then try and jump 
over to the inn from across the balcony. He could die by the 
sword, or with his neck snapped in half and his head smashed onto 
the cobbled street. He might make it though, and keep running. 
Any chance was better than certain death at their hands though, 
so the decision was quick.

Just as soon as they barged in, with swords drawn at the ready, 
he glimpsed at them as he ran up the stairs, their frenzied faces 
bearing witnesses to their folly and madness. He thought he knew 
one of them, from the time before he had joined the army. His 
feet raced in pace with his mind, though in quite different 
directions.

He could hear their steps heavy on the wooden stairs, its planks 
creaking from the weight and the sudden rush of bodies upon it. 
He was trying to remember his name, while he saw a shaft of light 
falling down on him, for a moment blinding him causing him to 
squint. His hands barely touching the rails of the stairs guided 
him onwards, his steps unfaltering, haste in every movement, like 
a fleeing hare.

Yes, it was Theodorus Fellman, the stabler's boy who worked with 
him as apprentices to the brewer. The shaft of light was coming 
from the attic's window, a place he seldom visited and duly 
avoided when he could. His feet kicked up dust that had settled 
in during many years, after long winters and hot summers had 
passed.

Their voices grumbled with vulgar words and curses, demanding his 
blood. Sinner, he heard them call him, blasphemer and the like. 
Things he had not thought of himself. Theodorus, he remembered, 
was not very good as a brewer, always botching the brew, drinking 
mostly when the master left them to cater the shop on their own.

He had kicked him out after a couple of weeks, and Theodorus had 
cursed him. Now he was back, hunting him down, a dog of war, 
unleashed upon meek prey such as himself. As he thought that, his 
one foot was already on the foot of the window, hands outside, 
ready to take the leap. He turned around waiting to see teeth 
upon his flesh, hear the howls of the pack vying for blood, his 
blood to be spilled.

In that moment, he only saw Theodorus mad with bloodlust, and as 
his blade tore through his torso, he thought he saw a sad moment 
of realisation, a sparkle of recognition in the eyes of his 
killer. As he fell to the ground, his eyes looked up to the clear 
sky and the wonderful day the dawned had promised.

When his body met the ground with a clatter like broken clay, he 
saw no more, and his blood ran down the cobbled street like red 
wine from a dripping keg, a waste many would find regrettable but 
only few would weep for.

The smell of blood, like iron, barely covered the stench of the 
bodies. But that was only because the slaughter had just begun.





General Tyrpledge was riding his horse, making an inspection of 
the City walls from a safe distance, his personal guard along 
with his adjutant following him from a respectful but close 
distance. He still could not believe he was tasked with the 
sacking of Pyr, and if it came to that, its razing. The 
Castigator had been blunt in orders and frugal in his 
explanations.

He had told him that the Patriarch was in league with a cluster 
of rebellious religious fanatics that wished for total domination 
of the Patriarch over the ruling council. He also said the 
Patriarch had made the first move against peace and prosperity, 
and we would bear witness to that.

Indeed, a messenger arrived bearing a message from the Patriarch, 
that the Castigator had been deemed unworthy in the eyes of God, 
and that the Noble Representative, Lord Ursempyre Remis, was the 
new Castigator of the Outer Territories. The General was 
dumbstruck, utterly flabbergasted at the turn of events, and did 
not know how to react.

The Castigator talked to him in earnest, urging him to uphold the 
Law, honor his rank and office, protect him and the Council as a 
whole, crush the rebels before they could take root firmly. He 
had asked about the Archminister, who had seemed a reasonable 
enough man, to intervene, somehow mediate, so that balance could 
be restored and things would not deteriorate into profuse madness 
at the speed of a rushing waterfall, as it seemed to be the case.

The Castigator had informed him then that sadly, the Archminister 
was found dead, assassinated by the rebel scum, the henchmen of 
the unholy demon that had posed as their Patriarch. Most of his 
staff were also cruelly killed, their skin flayed out to the 
bone, while the Archminister himself seemed to have been made the 
object of a ritual to the Deceiver, the False God.

The Castigator, with tears in his eyes had insisted that there 
was no better way to avenge his memory, other than to bring those 
heathen scum that had infiltrated their society to their knees, 
grind them into oblivion and spread their ashes in the oceans.

The effect on the General was devastating; in one night, 
everything that he had been taught, everything that he had built 
his life upon was crumbling down around him, around them all. The 
Patriarch, in league with rebels? Absurd! The very word had 
fallen into disuse, and was used only in an historical context, 
of ages past, or in thought-provoking discussion that rarely 
allowed its participants to delve deeper into such subjects.

The notion of rebellion was indeed, taboo. It had been since he 
had learned how to read and write. He thought to himself with 
bitterness that he might have been spared such skills, but then 
again, how would the army live and breathe without notices, 
requisition forms, and orders in triplicate?

And the Castigator, fleeing into the night, beset on all sides by 
danger and hounds set out for his blood? All under the design of 
the Patriarch, with the Noble Representative aiding him? Himself, 
the most noble of the Lords, ruler of a family of great tradition 
and honour, an archdemon in the flesh, thousands of men acting 
his bidding like minions? Incredulous, inconceivable, 
unimaginable, the General had thought.

Until he had seen the orders written and signed from the 
Patriarch, have his army stand down, ignore the Castigator before 
him as a traitor and conspirator set to overthrow the Rule of the 
Council, disarm the men and dissolve the Army peacefully, under 
the watchful eye of the procastinators. 

The letter was signed and sealed by the Castigator of the Outer 
Territories, Ursempyre Remis, the acting Archminister, and that 
buffoon, the Procastinator Militant, Gomermont. That was enough 
to bitterly set his mind, and order the immediate assembly of all 
fighting units. Once General Tyrpledge reaffirmed his army's 
oaths to the Castigator, he ordered that the army march toward 
the City of Pyr.

They marched in a campaign to uphold the Law, and free their land 
and people from the tyranny of evil men. Men whose sinister 
purposes knew no bounds and would stop at nothing other than the 
utter desecration of the Gods, the dissolution of the Law, and 
the destruction of their divinely crafted society.

As these announcements were made in front of the whole army, the 
few procastinators spread around the staging grounds having 
received word of the orders sent, fleed with alacrity in an 
unusual sign of intelligence.

And so it had began, the campaign that would forever change the 
history of the Outer Territories for better, or for worse.

The General had been musing on these recent past events for some 
time, it seemed, because he could hear anxiety and worry in the 
words that his adjutant repeated in the same staccato manner:

“Sir, are you alright? Sir? Should I call for your physician, 
sir?Sir? Are you alright?”

Tyrpledge flashed red hot with anger and suddenly violence seemed 
to seep from his voice:

“Gods dammit Guighan I'm not bleeding to death, am I?”

The major stood to attention crisply and bellowed as if he were 
still a young cadet at the Agogeia:

“No, sir!”

Tyrpledge instantly relaxed when he saw the major acting like a 
young trainee and managed a sigh. He turned to look at his 
adjutant, seeking eye contact:

“Guighan, this is not a parade ground. This is war. War between 
brothers, sisters, family. If I am bristling with anger and 
exasperation, it's not because of your stupid questions. It's 
because of this stupid war. However, one must choose a side. And 
I chose what I've believed in all my life. If that fails us, then 
what hope will there remain?”

“Sir?”

“It was a rhetorical question, Guighan. Don't fret about that. I 
was ensnared in thought. I still find all this impossible to 
digest, still it seems I will have to.”

“Sir.”

“You must be an expert in terseness, Guighan. Let's continue the 
inspection. I need to find a weak spot or something we could use 
to our advantage. If possible, I would like to keep bloodshed to 
a minimum. The insurgents could be hiding anywhere, posing as 
innocents, sheltered by anonymity. Unless they put a jester's hat 
on with bell's and whistles, our soldiers will be unable to 
differentiate between the enemy and the common folk. Though the 
distinction by the time all this is over could become a lesson in 
semantics. Carry on, major.”

“Sir.”

Major Guighan saluted briskly and rejoined the guard further 
back, where he relayed the order to continue. With that, they set 
off, the horses slowly trodding, and the footsoldiers keeping a 
brisk pace.

For the most part, the insurgents seemed ready to hold their 
ground, and the walls looked well defended, with no exceptionally 
weak points in sight. No significant breach had been made from 
the first shots of the siege engines, and the rest of them had 
barely began to be assembled at this point.

Once these were completed, and a point of entry selected, they 
would fire a barrage concentrated on a specific point in the 
walls, hoping to tear it down and gain entry. His cavalry had 
made attempts at reconnoitering but had not succeeded in gaining 
much other than some fatal injuries and lots of worn out horses. 
It seemed that these men defending the walls would not be caught 
napping so easily.

The General from this distance could see the milling masses of 
men, assembling to receive their orders for the day, cleaning 
their swords and tending to their armor and shields. He could see 
the pikemen polishing their halberds in an almost ceremonious 
fashion.

The bowmen were stretching the chords of their bows, testing its 
tension limits, filling their quivers with arrows. The swordsmen 
were up and about, ready to be called for action, their longwords 
a mirror sheen, their chainmails and helmets grey dull steel.

The General was generally pleased with what he was seeing, the 
men following orders, adhering to protocol, going about their 
business as usual. As if this was one of many exercises, as if 
they were not marching against their own people. A rarity in his 
career, the General did not know what to make of that? Did his 
men care not at all? Or was their sense of duty overshadowing 
their other emotions? That remained to be seen.

The outlook of his army, he deemed, was a professional, 
determined force ready for action. But some of the units though 
required special attention, because of their special nature, and 
special abilities.

The men of the vaunted Thorax regiment were still trying to put 
on their monstrously oversized armor, huge burly men, encased 
thick sheets of plate metal, almost impervious to arms, even 
againt steel rifles. They would form the front line of the 
assault, to cover and shield the men behind them.

And far behind at their maximum range distence, while all the 
rest of the army was preparing for battle, the crews of the 
steamers were making sure their machines would be ready when 
called upon. 

Everything seemed as it should be, everyone seemed professional, 
going about his work. It somehow felt wrong for an army to be 
this distant, so indifferent to an enemy that was in fact their 
own people, though wildly misled and utterly wrong in their 
decision to upset the way of life. Or so Tyrpledge felt. He 
didn't know, and could not know, though what his men thought and 
felt. He'd have to wait for them to show their true demeanor and 
spirit in the ultimate test: In battle.

When battle was joined, the true feeling of his men would emerge. 
Beyond wrath and bloodlust, beyond the will to survive and in 
doing so kill a man, would they show remorse? Guilt? Would they 
stay their hands in a moment of doubt? When they see their 
brother coming at them with axe and sword, will they judge him 
wrong or will the animal inside have the final word. When all 
this is said and done, will there be victory? Or nothing but 
loss? It would be for the Gods to decide. Him, as General of the 
Army of the Outer Territories, would follow his own path to the 
end.

His look was now veritably sullen, withdrawn. He had reined his 
horse to stop its trot. He was not even looking at the walls now, 
or his men, or any of the machines. He was looking at his own 
hands, gloves taken off, fearing that somehow blood had already 
soiled them. The blood of his own people. But their lives were 
forfeit now, he knew. The moment they decided to carry out every 
unholy blasphemous act ever imagined. And perhaps some that were 
never. What would they hope to gain, other than seed war, 
bloodletting, misery, hate? He could not fathom. And he could 
never remit their folly now. They may have dug their own graves, 
but it saddened him very much now the thought that he would have 
to fill them.

He looked up again, squinting slightly at the bright light of the 
suns. He noticed from the corner of his eye Major Guighan 
approaching almost sheepishly, a trait that usually provoked his 
anger and irritation, even though he did not consider himself an 
irascible man. It was probably because he did expect men around 
him to perform their duties to the best of their abilities. Major 
Guighan was his adjutant, so he was supposed to stay close to 
him, advise him, confide in him. How could he do that from all 
that distance? He was an exceptional logistics officer, very 
capable at handling personnel and men via manifests and report 
forms, but his communicative skills were somewhat subpar. Perhaps 
the major was for some reason intimidated by the general, or his 
rank and office, but that would not do for the position he 
currently held, in the General's opinion.

When the Major approached him at a respectful distance, as if the 
General emitted some kind of aura he did not wish to step on, he 
saluted crisply and asked him in a most professional, clipped 
tone of voice:

“Sir. You seemed to have stopped here for no apparent reason. Is 
there something of specific importance at this part of the walls, 
sir? You seem to have lost your colour sir, if I may add. Perhaps 
you are feeling ill? Should I fetch the physician, sir?”

Tyrpledge turned and stabbed the man with his eyes, his face a 
mixed expression of exasperation and wild disbelief. The General 
thought he would give the Major one last chance before he placed 
him at the front of a Thorax battalion. With no armor whatsoever. 
So, with evident effort to restrain himself he replied:

“Should I require a physician, Major, I would ask for one myself. 
Unless of course I'm bleeding to death. But that's the reason you 
are my adjutant, it seems. You always remind me blissfully that I 
am not bleeding to death. You accomplish that with your hollow 
remarks and repetitively inane questions. I will ask you just 
this once Major, to act accordingly and spare me the dung. If 
there is something of import to be said, say it. If you think a 
question in matters of tactics and strategy pertinent, ask. 
You've proved to be an efficient man. Now, please prove to me you 
are an efficient soldier and not a paperman. There will be death 
around here by nightfall. Don't ever ask me again if I'm feeling 
ill.”

Major Guighan stood stock still, as the General's inciseful 
remarks made their way to his heart and mind. Before the General 
could turn his gaze elsewhere, the Major managed to speak:

“I will not, sir. I realise now I had been wrong to assume you 
were a cold hearted bastard, sir. I could not bring myself to 
speak openly to a man who seemed not to care. I know differently 
now. With that being said, I believe we have made an extensive 
examination of the walls, and no notable weaknesses have been 
spotted. The patrols will try again at nighttime, though we are 
not expecting hopeful results. The men seem to be ready as 
they'll ever be for such a fight. Should we return to the staff 
tent and plan our tactical approach on the matter?”

Tyrpledge was stunned to hear the man speak his mind after all 
this time. He believed noone had called him like that since he 
became General, and he also felt kind of hurt that a member of 
his staff would think him so. It actually meant then that the 
others thought so as well. He guessed the major would make amends 
though. After a somewhat awkward moment of silence, Tyrpledge 
replied:

“I'd never thought I'd pass for cold-hearted. Very well, major. 
Tell the guards to lead on, and stay with me for a change. Tell 
me what you think about our approach.”





Ursempyre was fretfully looking over the tall arched balcony of 
the Disciplinarium's east tower. His gaze was deeply woven with 
sorrow and hurt. His soul felt empty, broken. Whatever he had 
been planning, was now nothing but a dream. The gale of the wind 
brought to his nostrils the smell of ash and cinder.

Fires had started in some parts of Pyr. Fires from the siege 
engines of the Army. Tyrpledge was leading them, a good man as 
far as he could remember, as far as he could judge a man. He 
believed he no longer had that privilege. Who was he to judge 
others? A consummate traitor, by any account. He was bereft of 
the things he valued most: Truth, honor, friendship.

He had lied, and he had deceived. He had lost his honour and 
sworn oaths that had filled his mouth with venom and choler. He 
had sacrificed everything, to save something. And now this. 
Within a single night, he had been duped not once but twice. He 
had been played like a puppet, and now his people would pay the 
price. All of his people, not just the kinsfolk, not only those 
that were prepared to pay some price. Everyone would now pay for 
his failure, his lack of wisdom and foresight. He was arrogant, 
he could see that now.

He believed him capable of achieving the dream of countless 
generations, seeing himself as the leader behind which the 
kinsfolk, the oldfolk, would spread like wildfire, uniting the 
people against a tyranny as old as stone and earth. He believed 
he could have liberated them all, usher a new era where every 
breath would smell of freedom instead of fear and oppression. He 
loathed him! That was what had blinded him. Loathing, unquenched 
passion, blinding wrath. He was more than shrewd, he was a demon 
incarnate, laughing behind their backs, toying with their minds 
and souls. Every single thread of fate firmly in his hands like 
reins.

Only last night, he had thought that his the worst fate could 
have in store for him was horrible meaningless torture at the 
hands of the Patriarch and his cronies. Now he was in living 
hell, unable to even scream in agony. There was no point, none 
would listen to him now. He had been crushed, mind and spirit, in 
one blow. He had been quite effectively made redundant, 
irrelevant, obsolete. He should not have given his offer any 
thought. He should have denied him. Denied his immense powers, 
his demonic shell and form. He should have told him that his 
people were not afraid of death. That it did not matter for him 
if they perished in hellish flames of an uncanny nature, or bled 
their lives away one by one by sword and bow. 

But that would have been a lie, and the Patriarch would have seen 
through it. There was no hope all along, Ursempyre thought. As 
fate had brought things together, and life had shaped him into 
the man he is, there was indeed nothing that could be done. He 
had lost this fight before it had even began. He could now do 
nothing but watch idly from afar, hoping his people would 
survive, that they would endure.

What would become of them then though? What had his mind devised? 
To what end, these extravagant machinations, this endless pulling 
of strings and dials, like the movement of wheels within wheels, 
a dizzying sensation, meant to disorient and mesmerize, while 
right behind us shadows were setting the real stage, Lord Remis 
thought in silence.

The Patriarch's purpose might have been unfathomable, but 
Ursempyre was only certain that it hold nothing good in stock for 
the people. If there was one thing he might try as a last attempt 
at redemption, was to try and learn as much as possible from the 
man. But he somehow felt that was as if trying to squeeze water 
out of stone, an impossible task either way one might look at it.

Sooner or later, Ursempyre thought, the army would find a way 
into the city. They had the men, the equipment, and the time to 
do so. And then the procastinators would perhaps find a deserving 
end, unable to put up a fight, under-equipped and overwhelmed by 
numbers they would lose the fight for Pyr. Even though the total 
strength of the procastinators had been summoned, it would take 
days, perhaps weeks for them to arrive in time to stem the tide 
of Tyrpledge's men.

Ursempyre tried to imagine what must be going through the 
General's mind at such a time. Was he torn between his devotion 
to duty and his feelings for his fellow men? Or did he relish the 
prospect of exacting vengeance in the name of the rightful 
Castigator and the Pantheon? What lay in his heart? Was it 
furious anger? Was it righteous wrath? Blind dedication and 
dispassionate will, the markings of a professional soldier?

He rather hoped the General was dumbfounded, left vacant inside 
at the realisation of this horrific reality. Perhaps he regarded 
all this with deep-seated consternation, and was troubled at his 
every step, haunted by images of the monstrous consequences his 
actions would have, for all of them. Was he such a man? He could 
not know, and was deadly afraid that he would like that question 
to be answered. It was only a matter of time before it did 
though.

Lord Remis was standing in front of the stone arch, the weight of 
his body supported by his hands touching the granite, as if they 
had been attached to it for ages, rigid as if they were not made 
of flesh. Servants had asked him to bring food and water. He had 
waved them away, but he could hear the frailness of their voices, 
their disbelief, their fear. He did not know what they feared 
most: the coming battle, the Patriarch, or the sudden realisation 
that the world had come upside down in a single night.

His guards outside the chamber had seemed equally perturbed. 
Though hand-selected from the ranks of the procastinators, they 
were not as blind and unintelligent as their lesser comrades. He 
had seen the complexion on their faces turn into the colour of 
ash, blood pumped away into their hearts lest it explode in 
shock, when they saw him appointed Castigator, in the stark 
middle of the night, with only the Patriarch and a few 
Disciplinarium officials to attend as witnesses. It all smelled 
wrong, even to simpletons such as these.

He did not question for one second though, that should he try to 
act wildly, fear would overcome and their instincts would not be 
reined, and they would bring him down, as the Patriarch had 
ordered them to, 'for his own good'.

On recollection, it seemed to Ursempyre that the Patriarch was 
somehow swinging this whole affair, precariously navigating 
between duplicity and lawfulness, trying to rewrite the Law and 
everything it had stood for since the very founding of the 
Territories. It was as if he had no clear view of the future he 
wanted to create for them.

If indeed, the Patriarch planned for any future at all. Ursempyre 
thought such a being more than capable of planning nothing more 
than their complete extermination. The total annihilation of the 
Outer Territories, starting from here, from Pyr, the seat of 
power and Law. That would not be beyond a hateful being of such 
power, malevolence, and intelligence. The only thing that such a 
path would lack, would be reason. But then again, Ursempyre 
thought as he smiled bitterly and shook his head, who said reason 
had any part in all this?

Ursempyre could see now the smoke from the fires rising, 
procastinators running in the streets, forcing people to follow 
them press-ganging them to be used as firemen, workers, 
craftsmen, and ultimately, he feared, fodder. The siege engines 
of the Army were starting their balefule song again, the thudding 
and creaking of huge catapults and trebuchets launching stone and 
lit barrels of tar against the city, indiscriminately, randomly. 
They were killing the same people they were meant to protect. How 
very much like something the Patriarch would have conjured in his 
ineffable mind and ultimate wisdom.

He sniggered bitterly despite himself. Then he heard a sparkling 
voice, and could almost see the insipid smile behind the words of 
the Patriarch without needing to turn:

“Quite a plan, don't you think?”

Ursempyre turned to face him, his eyes sizzling with hatred. He 
felt like lunging at him and ending this farce before he had to 
bear witness to the atrocities that would stain every street with 
blood and fire. But that would be cowardice, another treasonous 
step towards the hell that awaited men like him. No, he would try 
and make something out this charade he had been forced to play 
in. So, he indulged the Patriarch's cruel sociability and 
answered with a flat, stern voice:

“You take pride in such things? What are you really, Patriarch, 
if nothing but a robed demon?”

The Patriarch returned an even wider smile, his teeth sharply 
white, as if made from porcelain. He started to pace around the 
chamber, idly examining the various items in it, as if he had 
genuine curiosity.

“Calling me names, Castigator? How improper for a man of your 
rank and lineage. It has been my firm conviction ever since I can 
remember myself that the true nature of things certainly lies in 
their death. Only when something dies, can anyone really 
understand what it's true nature was. Trees wither into ghastly 
dried hulks of wood. Plants rot away and turn into dust, 
returning to the soil. Man is a beast, and like most beasts, he 
is made of flesh and bone, and the maggots make good use of him 
when he is dead.”

The Patriarch very carefully intoned the last word with a certain 
nuance that made it sound hollow. Coming out of his mouth the 
word sounded like a wooden mallet brought down upon a plank. 
Ursempyre's blood was coursing fast and hot through his body, but 
he kept his temper in check, trying to make good use of his 
aggravation at being forced to play with words:

“Is that what you are planning? To see all of us men dead and 
done for? Worm food, is that what you think of us? Have you had 
this idea in your mind for long, are is it a newly hatched 
fantasy of yours? What kind of cruel nature gave life to the 
likes of a creature like you, I cannot fathom. I only wish there 
are no others of your kind roaming free in this world.”

The Patriarch was looking at an exquisitely fashioned silver egg 
encrusted with gems. He looked as if he genuinely could not 
decide whether it was purely ornamental or served some fucntional 
purpose as well. He replied to Ursempyre with a nonchalant voice:

“Oh, no there are not. I can assure you of that. I killed them 
all long ago. But that is another story. You should not need to 
worry, I am not planning on telling you about it. At least not 
now. Perhaps, later. It will depend. I am a very moody person, I 
don't know if you've noticed it. I tend to follow my whims. I 
feel one should follow his heart, don't you?”

Ursempyre felt ashamed he was still conversing with the likes of 
the Patriarch. His blood was now boiling and he couldn't help but 
explode:

“You mock everything around you with extravagant arrogance and 
cynical devotion to your own self! Would you have me tell you I 
do not expect for you to have any heart at all? Is this your only 
way to derive pleasure in yourself? By pretentious dialogue with 
your captive victims and human tools? Is that the best you can 
do, Patriarch? Toy with me while your plans come into fruition? 
Is this all you've come to expect in your life?”

The Patriarch's tone changed abruptly. He now looked severe, 
tense, his voice sharp and threatening:

“Careful now, Castigator Ursempyre Remis. If you are trying to 
attract my ire with an amateurish attack on what you would call 
'pride', you are sorely mistaken and I can only feel genuinely 
sorry for your failure to truly understand. Though, it would be 
more than a surprise if you did. I simply did not expect you to 
try and use cheap, underhanded tactics that only work with 
moronic politicians such as yourself. Though it seems idiocy is a 
useful trait in politics. It got you to the very top.”

The Patriarch summoned a sardonic smile that made Ursempyre feel 
queasy. He was relentlessly carving up his mind and soul to feast 
on at his leasure. His words infuriated him and tore him apart at 
the same time. The Patriarch noticed he was not going to reply 
and pressed on:

“What are you thinking now, Ursempyre? I told you I can't read 
minds, not unaided. But I do take delight in toying with you, 
that much is certain. Why you ask? Should it be beneath me? A 
being of my powers? You talk as if you could understand me fully, 
as you know the extend of my abilities. You've made the same 
mistake as the men before you. Like Shan, especially like him. 
You think of me driven by the same desires and needs as you.

Do you really think this is about power? The ability to control 
others? That is nothing but a tool to wield. Power can be used to 
transform people, bend them, chastise them, shape them. Isn't 
that much more fun than simply using a person? I could talk 
around it for hours, Ursempyre, but you would still lack the 
acuity of spirit to grasp the notion in its fullness. How could I 
explain something so simple to such an occluded mind as yours?

Vying for a freedom you would fail to maintain. Unable to control 
yourself in the simplest of urges, you would wish you'd be able 
to assert control over power itself, share it as if it were pie. 
The weak-minded leading the blind over a sheer precipice. Would 
you take the plunge first of them all, Ursempyre? Would you lead 
by example, like a good ruler? Would you become their final, 
benevolent dictator? Would you ruin my game?

That's what it feels like for me, Ursempyre, a game where I can 
have it all if I want to but I choose to play by some rules. I 
set the scene, and act my part, with you as unknown partners. 
What makes it so grandiose, Lord Remis, is the fact that for the 
most part, you are willing partners. None of this foolishness you 
dream of, simple lust. Passion. Life exploding from every inch of 
your pathetic existence in contrast to your inane mewlings.

This is life, Ursempyre, and I'm living it. I'm living it as I 
please and there's no one to make me stop, no one to make me 
hurt, no one to make me feel anything other than great about it. 
If you could ever aspire to something Ursempyre it would be to 
aspiring to a perception as clear and total as mine. You would 
not weep then, indeed the idea would bring tears of laughter to 
your eyes. You would see the true nature of things. Despair now, 
for you very well know you have nothing else left to do in this 
world.”

He felt inundated with anger and sorrow and wanted to vent, spill 
this rueful cup of emotions he carried. He could not find the 
strength to do so. By all means, the Patriarch had managed to 
break him, force his will into nothingness, make him regret the 
day he thought about standing up against them and their tyranny.

He had not foreseen it all stemmed from this man. That was his 
biggest failing, the breaking point where he had been canceled, 
turned into a shadow, a creeping thing that should cease to be. 
He felt like his very being was an affront to man. His dark 
thoughts swallowed Ursempyre whole, and he lay there on the floor 
of his chambers, upon a carpet with the embroidery of the 
Castigator, weeping for himself, mourning for the future that 
would not come, a people that would cease to be.

He had helped in that crime, he saw it again more fully now, and 
he had been unable to do anything, even now, with the root of the 
cause standing in front of him. He was a lesser man, he knew now. 
There would be no turning back, for noone. Parts of his mind 
urged him to endure, but his soul was crushed, the spirit gone. 
The Patriarch was right all along; he would despair, because 
nothing else was left for him to do.





Ikebod leaned his head carefully out of the corner of the street, 
and looked up the street to his right. Once he was assured it was 
safe, he motioned behind him. Celia and two trusted guards from 
House Remis came to his side. The guards wore non-descript armor 
and clothing, plain, unadorned and utilitarian. Their faces wore 
stern expressions, exuding an air of determination and 
professionalism.

Celia looked wary, but she felt confident of her guides. She 
thought Ikebod would even give his life to protect her, if it 
ever came to that. Which was more than a mere thought, with the 
City burning, under siege. The smoke from the various small fires 
hung thick in the air, the light breeze blowing through the city 
of Pyr unable to clear the atmosphere. The rosy red of the coming 
dusk was mingled with the sooty grey of the smoke, turning into a 
dark crimson red, gloomy and menacing.

They hurried across the street where the shadows would offer them 
some degree of protection from ever searchful eyes. Word around 
the kinsfolk was that the procastinators had begun press-ganging 
people in the streets, eagerly searching for any poor soul that 
happened to wander. Houses were being invaded and the men 
forcibly taken away from their families. It seemed that it had 
all begun quite the other way around from what it had been 
planned.

Instead of leading the revolution, Lord Ursempyre Remis had 
suddenly sided with the Patriarch. It was more than a bitter blow 
to the Kin. It was an unimaginable, completely unthinkable event, 
that nevertheless had come to pass just the night before. From 
what Celia could gather from the dealings of Ikebod with various 
people from the kinsfolk while they still remained at House 
Remis, they were not safe in the estate.

They had to flee, and disperse. The various cells, the people in 
the organisation delegated with some degree of organisational 
responsibility would convene somewhere else, in one of the places 
prepared elsewhere according to a carefully laid out contingency 
plan. Noone had thought though that Lord Remis would be absent, 
indeed turn traitor.

She had not known the man personally, but from the people around 
him, working with him, she could not understand such a thing. 
Amonas was one such man, and he could never turn traitor, his 
heart and mind utterly devoted to their cause. He had dreamt of a 
better future, and he had shared that vision with her. They were 
planning to raise their child in such a bright future. What would 
become of that vision now that everything seemed to crumble like 
a wall of dried mud? She felt the child kick with vigor, 
blissfully unaware of what was transpiring in the world it would 
be born in soon.

They were walking briskly, anxiously throwing gazes all around 
them, wary of being seen. Ikebod was leading them through the 
streets instead of the underground passages because he was afraid 
they might have been compromised. If procastinators were indeed 
running around the underground passage looking for kinsfolk, they 
would be caught like mice with nowhere to run. While running on 
the streets presented a more obvious danger, it also offered them 
more venues of escape. It was a gambit they hoped would not fail.

They could hear the distant cries of procastinators and the thuds 
of impacts from the siege engines. The army was methodical in his 
approach, wearing down the defenders of the city, forcing them to 
occupy themselves with the spreading fires that threatened to 
engulf the city in a firestorm that would burn the city of Pyr to 
the ground, along with most of its populace.

When the opportune time arrived, they would then probably try to 
breach the walls in their weakest point, or storm them in mass, 
whichever would seem to offer the best chances of entering the 
city. As things stood, it was a matter of time. The most pressing 
issue now was, what the kinsfolk would do in this mayhem? Would 
they try and rescue the city and its people from certain 
destruction? Or should they try and flee. Ikebod had seemed 
reticent to disclose any more of his thoughts on the matter, but 
he seemed to have his mind occupied with many ither unvoiced 
concerns. Celia hoped he could also propose some solution, some 
idea that would bring hope instead of the gloomy despair and 
doubt that seemed to hang in the air.

They had reached another crossroads now, and they were about to 
emerge in a brightly lit wide road. They were hiding in a dark 
alleyway, the light from the street casting flickering shadows on 
the walls around them. Ikebod and one of the guards peered over 
the street. Ikebod motioned the guard to hide again. He seemed 
agitated when he said:

“Procastinators. Two, maybe tree squads. They are herding a 
throng of people. It seems they're going to pass this way soon. 
Probably headed to a fire. I can see them holding buckets, and 
jogging briskly. We have to double back.”

The guards nodded in acknowledgement and turned around to go back 
the way they came. Ikebod gently pushed Celia to follow them, 
with him right behind her. Suddenly, the guards in front of them 
froze, and drew their swords. A patrol of procastinators had seen 
them, and they yelled:

“In the name of the Patriarch, halt! Show yourselves!”

They had drawn their swords and were rushing to meet them. The 
guards drew their sword and stood their ground, ready for the 
procastinators to come to them. One of the guards turned around 
to Celia and Ikebod and told them in a quiet, determined way:

“The way is blocked. We'll handle them. Go now, run. We'll make 
it on our own, fate willing.”

Ikebod nodded crisply and took Celia by the arm. She turned 
around and opened her mouth to protest, but soon her feet were 
galloping in the pace Ikebod set. His pull became stronger as she 
seemed to hesitate, but she yielded, her instincts driving her 
body rather than her mind.

They crossed the wide street without caring whether they or not 
they would be seen. It no longer mattered. They would now have to 
make haste, they had been seen. As they ran down the streets of 
Pyr, passing through small alleys and brightly lit roads, they 
realised night had come and the building and houses around them 
were lit by firelight. Pyr was burning. Celia felt a sudden pang 
of fear grip her heart and instinctively tightened her grip on 
Ikebod's arm. The wizened, trusted servant of House Remis told 
her soothingly as they ran together:

“Fear not, lady Celia. I keep my promises.”

Her feet felt somehow lighter and despite her carrying, she made 
good speed and did not slow them down much. Ikebod was also 
straining himself, though she believed he was leading them with a 
fast pace, especially for a man his age.

They heard confounded voices shouting directions. Other 
procastinators must have been alarmed of their presence. They 
could hear the galloping of horses on the cobbled streets around 
them. It felt like an invisible noose was tightening around them, 
and was about to close tight too soon for comfort.

Ikebod urged her to hurry and spoke to her while out of breath:

“They'll be upon us.. soon. On the next.. turn.. take a left.. 
Then right.. on the second street.. There's an abandoned.. 
blacksmith's shop.. a dark alley.. knock thrice.. and then once 
more.. for two knocks.. and twice for.. one knock.. thrice, 
then.. once for two, twice for one.. Understand, my lady?”

She answered with her brow furrowed from a twitching fear:

“I understand, but why are you telling me this?”

Ikebod was gasping for breath, while his pace seemed to slow 
down, his feet finally starting to fail him.

“I can't go.. much longer.. I'll give them.. someone to catch.. 
please.. do not think about it.. don't argue.. no time.. I'll 
manage.. somehow.. I'll manage..”

Celia's grimaced with horror at the prospect, and protested:

“Sir Wirf! It's unfair! I cannot take such responsibility, not 
for your life!”

“Not your's.. to begin with.. Now, go! Think of your child!”

He freed himself from her grip and started heading the way they 
came. She stood there transfixed for a moment, and then thought 
of her child. She believed she would feel torn inside, but the 
decision came instinctively. She ran with all the alacrity she 
could muster, holding her abdomen with care, while she tried to 
follow Ikebod's directions to the letter.

She felt like crying, but the tension prevented her from doing 
so. She really hoped Ikebod would somehow make it alive out of 
this ordeal, but she did not really expect him to do so. She 
wasn't even sure about herself and her child.

She turned to the street Ikebod had told her, and saw the 
blacksmith's shop, derelict and shabby from the outside, wooden 
planks barely concealing broken windows, and a shrank, shabby 
wooden door only half-closed, a rusty chain holding it from 
falling down, a lock that seemed to be purely decorative.

She thought she heard then the pained cry of Ikebod from afar, 
echoing over the stones of the streets. She did not stop or look 
behind, she knew there was no point. She was in the dark alley, 
looking at a rather sturdy looking door. She knocked thrice, and 
after a brief pause of silence, a reply sounded, in the form of 
two knocks. She hesitated for a second and then knocked only 
once. Another small silence followed, and the door opened, barely 
a fist wide.

Moonlight shone upon a grimy, ugly face of a man, who asked her 
sharply, without even bothering to look at her for a moment:

“Password?”

Celia was surprised, and instinctively took a step back. She 
searched her mind for a moment, and could not recall Ikebod 
telling her any password. She was worried she might have 
misheard, or in the panic of the moment forgotten about it. 
Without anything else to reply, she simply told the man what she 
could:

“I wasn't told a password.”

The man opened the door widely and ushered her in with fast 
motions. As he led her through the darkness of the shop, he asked 
her:

“Who was with you, lady?”

She replied without hesitation, a hint of grief in her voice 
though:

“Sir Ikebod Wirf. He.. stayed behind.”

The man was taciturn in his reply:

“I see. Come.”

He reached for the floor then, and pulled a hatch, then lowered a 
small ladder from somewhere nearby. Dim light filled the place. 
He motioned her inside with a wave of his hand. She hesitated and 
asked him:

“Sir Ikebod said the passages might be compromised, fraught with 
procastinators.”

“This one's not connected. In you go, lady.”

“Where do I go from here?”

“It's a straight line. No doors or anything. You'll see.”

She nodded and went down the small flight of steps, and heard the 
hatch close behind her. She was standing in a corridor carved in 
rock, with lit torches affording the place enough light for 
someone to walk without running onto a wall. In the distance, she 
could only see darkness, but she thought she could hear a din of 
sorts, like men talking, some of the voices louder than the 
others.

She walked with an almost wary pace, not knowing where the 
corridor led. She felt unsure now, vulnerable. She thought of 
Ikebod, and renewed her trust in him and his words. She should be 
safe here.

As she walked towards the dark end of the corridor, she could see 
light pouring in from one side. The din grew louder, and now the 
sound of quarreling voices was evident. She felt pain in her 
lower abdomen, and flinched. With every step she took, the voices 
grew clearer. She could now clearly hear men having a very loud 
argument, many people trying to speak at once, a cacophony.

She reached the end of the corridor and stepped through a narrow 
opening into a wide, much more brightly lit cave, large enough 
for hundreds of people, like a chamber of sorts. Large 
stalactites hung from the ceiling and where mirrored in some 
places by their corresponding stalagmites. Some stalagmites 
seemed cut by man, and others had joined with the stalactites 
forming columns, some thin, others thick as pillars. The bright 
light was coming from numerous torches and braziers, casting 
enormous shadows on the walls of the cave.

She could see more than a hundred men standing, with maybe a 
dozen of them standing separately from the others, forming 
somewhat of a circle around a brazier that seemed to stand 
squarely in the middle of the cave. They were shouting at each 
other and she could not make out a single phrase. It was as if 
the market of Pyr had secretly gathered in here, each man trying 
to sell his wares.

She took a few more steps closer and she felt pain in her lower 
abdomen again, this time more acute. She let out a single cry as 
the pain left her with stabbing sensation, and made her gasp. A 
couple of men that were standing closer to her, almost isolated 
from the throng of people, must have heard her, and turned to 
look. They were surprised, and quickly strode to her side.

They seemed wary, even suspicious of her. As she stood there with 
an expression of pain still written on her features, one of the 
man grabbed her gently by the arm, noticing she was carrying. She 
asked her then, while the other man overlooked, and the cacophony 
behind them continued unabated:

“Who are you, lady? Who sent you here?”

“Sir Ikebod.. Sir Ikebod! Wirf!”

The pain welling up from inside her numbed her senses, she gasped 
and struggled to stand on her feet, clutching the other arm of 
the man for support. At the mention of Ikebod's name they seemed 
to relax somewhat, but furrowed brows appeared on their faces. 
The man who hadn't yet spoken, asked her:

“Where is Ikebod lady? Why isn't he here with you?”

She breathed heavily, as if breathing would keep the pain at bay, 
but that did not hold any truth. Another pang of pain came, and 
she gasped without crying this time. She managed to answer:

“We were seen. We ran. He stayed behind.”

The man to whom she clung asked her then with worry in his voice:

“Lady, you seem to be in pain. Are you hurt?”

She shook her head without uttering a word. The other man spoke 
again:

“What is your name?”

“Celia Ptolemy.”

The two men looked at each other with understanding. One of them 
said:

“Amonas' wife.”

And then the other pointed to the ground at her feet and said in 
disbelief:

“Lady Celia, you are bleeding.”

Another sudden wave of pain washed over her, the unwanted 
sensation lingering with damnable intensity. She looked down at 
her feet, and she could see droplets of blood running down her 
feet, starting to form a small layer. Over the cacophony of the 
crowd in front of her, she whispered with anxiety:

“The child is coming.”




  The Sleeping Man

The first sense to return to Hilderich was smell. He could make 
out the distinct sharpness of metal lingering on his nostrils. He 
sniffed some more air and felt its odourless freshness enter his 
lungs. His breath was easy now. He opened his eyes and his sight 
adjusted to the ambient dim light. He felt his ribs with a hand 
and could feel no pain. It seemed that what had transpired 
seemingly moments before was not a dream. He was feeling fine, 
his broken ribs seemed to have mended miraculously. 

He saw the place they were in: It was a small room, non-descript, 
walls greenish hues all around, a shape of many corners, and a 
relatively high ceiling etched in shadow. There was no obvious 
source of lighting, nothing in the way of a lamp or a torch. It 
was as if faint light somehow seeped through the walls and the 
floor, as if moonlight could pass inside this strange chamber. 
Amonas was lying right beside him unconscious or perhaps 
sleeping. They were both sitting on what seemed to be a circular 
dais with a glassy surface, a material that only cast the tiniest 
of reflections, and seemed to absorb what little light there was 
in an uncanny manner.

Hilderich felt refreshed, invigorated. He stood up and gazed 
around the chamber. He was curious of their new surroundings, and 
believed that they had probably arrived at what that voice had 
called the centron. It was a quite a long stretch taking the 
words of a disembodied voice seriously, but he felt he should put 
some trust in something that can mended his body without pain, 
effort, or time. What mattered right now to Hilderich was that 
they were off that accursed place that came close to claiming his 
life. They were not quite where they were hoping to be, but they 
were on their way, and that was a truly blissful achievement.

The room was otherwise uninteresting, sporting a single door 
barely recognisable by its very thin frame, probably made of the 
same material as the walls. As he was searching for other signs 
around the room, anything that would pique his interest, he heard 
Amonas beside him grunt and moan slightly. He turned around to 
look at him and smiled brightly:

“You're up. I didn't know whether you were knocked out or just 
sleeping so I let you be. We're here.”, he said gesturing to the 
bleak green walls around him with his hands.

Amonas looked disoriented, dizzy, as if he had been very recently 
hit on the head with something quite painful but non-lethal. He 
managed to ask Hilderich with his usually gruff voice sounding 
even more coarse from his dry throat:

“Where is 'here'?”

Hilderich sounded quite exuberant:

“Here! The centron, if the voice we heard is to be believed. I, 
for one, cannot think otherwise; my broken ribs are mended, my 
lungs feel fine. Better than ever actually. I even think I am a 
bit lighter, in a way.”

Amonas looked around him, soaking up his surroundings, flexing 
the muscles in his hands and head with deliberate motions. His 
face wore pained expressions at some of the moments, as if he had 
been injured or strained. Hilderich noticed and asked him:

“Are you feeling alright? You seem to be in pain.”

Amonas nodded slightly in agreement and replied:

“It feels as if my head is about to pop open. I have this 
throbbing headache and a dull sensation. Exactly like being hit 
on the head with a club. You feel fine, though?”

Hilderich rocked himself back and forth on his toes and heels, 
his face beaming with health and good spirits. He replied with a 
grin:

“Does it show?”

Amonas returned his grin with a faint smile and nodded. He said 
to Hilderich with genuine bonhomie:

“It does, Hilderich. It really does. Quite a change of events 
then we have here.”

“Indeed. But we're not quite back home yet. And I've been 
thinking only just a few moments ago.. My master's work were the 
keystones. He had this theory.. Well, many theories but I was not 
privy to the bulk of his work. I was supposed to find a man that 
held all the answers I could ever hope for. Indeed, all the 
answers our world could hope for. This man, the Stoneforger, I 
believe he's here.”

Amonas looked at Hilderich in pure disbelief. With his head 
throbbing from a pain that had not subsided the least, he asked 
Hilderich with a puzzled voice:

“What do you mean? I don't understand. What are you telling me?”

“Please, hear me out. I believe the Stoneforger is here. I 
believe that the voice that spoke to us and tended to my wounds 
is indeed what it claimed to be, from what I could gather, an 
ancient technological marvel. Do not easily ascribe such wonders 
to things as magic and Gods, Amonas. You were right to believe 
our world is built upon heaps of lies and deceit. I do not know 
what you saw when you stepped into that pillar of light the first 
time, but this time, that pillar of light brought us here, and I 
believe all the evidence you will ever need to show me is here, 
in this place, the centron.”

Amonas was staring at him now with a frown, his silence a clear 
sign for Hilderich to continue:

“There is vast knowledge and certainly intelligence of some sort 
here, Amonas. It must be this man, this person I'm seeking. 
Though my reasoning is that he is so much more than a simple man. 
But he exists. He should exist. Everything points to that logical 
assumption. My master had devoted most of his life searching out 
for more clues to prove the existence of a place very much like 
what we are standing in now. It would cause him to gape in awe 
and astonishment surely, because he believed this place belonged 
to an era long ago forgotten, to a civilisation totally extinct. 
He believed these were for the most part relics, Amonas. But as 
you've seen, there is much more to that. Inane artifacts like 
stone and marble and brick do not speak with disembodied voices, 
Amonas, that much is certain.”

Amonas shook his head and replied to Hilderich as he stood up, 
his gaze now bearing tension. He still wore a pained expression 
on his face, only this time it was mingled with wariness and 
suppressed annoyance. He believed he was beginning to understand 
what Hilderich was about to propose and he did not relish the 
thought. He asked him tersely:

“So?”

“All I know is that the keystone is what has enabled us to reach 
this place. A keystone that was in the care of my master, who had 
spent years of his life connecting the keystones with other 
devices, and an extinct civilisation of extreme sophistication. 
The keystone, the voice, all we've seen so far are indeed proof 
of the concepts and theories in his studies.”

Amonas sighed and exhaled deeply before asking Hilderich with an 
increasingly exasperated look on his face:

“Meaning?”

“I could never have hoped to happen upon such marvels by mere 
perseverence, Amonas. I would have spent my days around arcane 
texts and chronicles, researches, studies and dusty volumes 
written by men who had lost their minds in the process. A process 
that would take me years, perhaps decades to carry through 
myself, analysing and cross-checking references, names, places, 
artifacts. It would have claimed the better years of my life. And 
it would have proven a futile endeavor just like the one my 
master had embarked upon.”

At the mention of Hilderich's master, Amonas brought to his mind 
the image of Cimon, always a thoughtful person, gentle and kind. 
A good friend with which he had spent many nights discussing the 
finer points of drinking. He was soothing for his soul, Cimon. 
And he had met Celia because of him. He owed him more than a 
fleeting memory. His face mellowed somewhat, he even felt the 
headache had subsided as well. He asked Hilderich with a calm, 
friendly voice this time:

“I know he was troubled by some arcane mysteries, but he was most 
circumspect about his work. I never knew details. All I knew was 
that he had become unwanted in the circles of the Curatoria. What 
exactly happened?”

Hilderich sighed and took a deep breath, as if about to apologise 
for a grievous mistake in the past that he could not make amends 
for. He then replied to Amonas:

“Even though he was the first Curator to assemble enough evidence 
to support such a theory, when he presented his work he was met 
with derision, laughed upon as another half-mad fool. Sadly, only 
few of his friends and colleagues supported him in public and 
pleaded for him to maintain his status as Curator, albeit on the 
condition that he would burn the bulk of his work and renounce it 
as a work of fiction. He had never broached the subject during my 
apprenticeship. I learnt about it from my surreptitious ventures 
into his personal study. To tell you the truth, I did not believe 
him either, and sided silently with those who considered him 
little more than deranged. I was sorely mistaken and the proof 
came in the worst of ways, the day my master died.”

Amonas nodded thoughtfully, looking for a moment away from 
Hilderich, biting his lip with a hint of consternation, as if 
sudden angst filled him. He then shot an even gaze to Hilderich 
and asked him:

“What have you been trying to tell me Hilderich. Speak your mind 
plainly.”

Hilderich returned the stare and the words came out of his mouth 
as of their own volition:

“If it was by fate or chance alone, it really matters little to 
me now, but we have gone through a bewildering journey to end up 
in a place where myth meets reality. In a sense, stepping through 
that pillar of light was both a blessing and a curse. We're here 
now, Amonas, closer than ever. I need to find him. Not just for 
my sake, or my master's sake. It would be a revelation that could 
change the world.

Don't you see? We have to find him first and foremost before we 
do anything else. Answers to everything you could possibly 
imagine, Amonas. Everything is here. Everything began here. It 
must have. This is the place of legend man has locked out of his 
mind, but has kept it in his soul. A world that is somehow 
connected to our own. A world steeped in technology undreamt of. 
Common links from our past.

We have to find him, Amonas. Or his people. Their history, their 
lore. We must have access to it so we can learn our own past. 
Don't you see? We walk into a pillar of light and then end up in 
another world, another sun, without a moon! And now we're here, 
somewhere. Going back and finding the Stoneforger, those are now 
intertwined.

We can't go back unless we unlock some of the mysteries behind 
all these wonders we've witnessed. Whatever makes this place, 
this world even, tick, we have to find out about it. Let's find 
him, Amonas. Only then will we be able to go back. Unless you 
think we could just open up that door and be right where we 
wanted to be.”

Amonas stood staring at Hilderich's eyes, a tiny glitter barely 
visible in their black. He felt compelled. The words rang true to 
his ears. He only believed he was doing the right thing when he 
at length said to Hilderich, gesturing with a slight nod:

“After you then.”



They were now walking through a stupendous underground cavern of 
exquisite beauty. Huge crystals of many colours and large 
clear-cut facets hung from the ceiling, mirroring their walking 
figures with pristine clarity, sparkling from the faint light 
that filled the vast space with remarkable ease. Some of their 
reflections were large enough to see, even though the roof of 
this gigantic enclosure was improbably high.

Simply looking at it filled them with awe but disoriented them as 
well, making them feel queasy after a while. They had been 
walking on a narrow gangway that connected two crevices on 
opposite sides of the cavern. Far below their feet, furious 
swirls of white hot and molten red rock churned with rage, their 
emitted incandescence gracing the thought-defying towers that 
seemed to vanish into the infernal abyss with an eerie glow.

The cavern had stunned them with their wild, harsh beauty when 
they first laid eyes upon it. And the towers had been another 
unfathomable wonder that imagination would have failed to 
conjure. They rose from the depths of the inferno of molten rock 
and lava up to the level of the unique gangway that traversed 
this astounding cavity.

Their surface was matte black, almost obsidian-like. It very much 
seemed to resemble the material the bullhorns were made of, but 
it lacked the same refinement. It seemed as if this was more 
coarse in nature, more suited to the harsh environment they were 
set in. Indeed their foundations seemed to lie in a hellish sea 
of fire where every nothing could ever hope to remain intact.

Yet, these towers endured. A thin lattice of glass-like pipes 
connected the towers as if they formed a grid. Bright white light 
seemed to flow through them with slow, deliberate pulses. A 
marvel of technology, certainly a feat of engineering only a 
civilisation hundreds of thousand of years old could hope to 
achieve.

They had passed through various corridors along the way, not all 
of them uniform in appearance and size. Some were brightly lit, 
sporting white panelled walls of porcelain-like material, others 
were dimly light, in the fashion of the room they had woken up 
in. Some were pitch black, none of their features visible.

Most were in pristine condition, like people lived in this place 
and dutifully kept it clean and polished, but they had not met a 
single soul. Their senses informed them that this place was void 
of life, deserted, abandoned. No smell or sound gave away the 
presence of living men. There were no cobwebs, no dust, no grime 
to call this place abandoned, forlorn.

But it was uncannily void of life in general, as if everyone 
around had left in a hurry, no trace they even existed behind. 
But surely men must have walked past these walls, for though 
varied, they seemed designed and engineered to accomodated men. 
Men like them, not giants, demons, or Gods. It was fascinating to 
uncover such a common trait with men from an undeniably very 
distant, glorious past.

It was a strange mix, this network of corridors and passages. As 
if it had been built by different people, at different times, 
adding, removing, restructuring as they saw fit, by whim or 
necessity, it was impossible to know. Hilderich had felt filled 
with wonder and awe at the prospect of systematically mapping 
these passages, thousands of questions formed in his mind seeking 
answers, in-fighting for a quoat of attention and thinking time.

From the moment they left the chamber where they woke up in, they 
had followed an almost random course, generally preferring lit 
paths whenever possible. They had ended up in dead-ends, mostly 
doors that would not open of their volition like most of them 
did. They had backtracked and chosen alternate tracks. Amonas had 
suggested that they somehow keep track of their path, lest they 
end up going in circles in a place which had no labels to follow, 
and no map as well.

Hilderich had calmed Amonas down and told him he'd keep track of 
their path in his mind, as there was no other way to do so. 
Marking the walls was impossible, as they seemed impervious to 
Amonas knife, unable to even put a slight notch on their surface, 
irrespective of the force exerted and the effort spent.

It had paid out in the end, since their path had taken them to 
the crystal-roofed cavern, with a brightly lit gate on the 
opposite end of the gangway. The gangway itself was as 
non-descript as the walls they had seen so far, but what had 
genuinely picked Amonas' interest, apart from the immensity of 
all that surrounded them, was that the gangway did not possess 
any guardrails, as if it was impossible for someone to trip 
himself and hurl himself down to certain death.

Amonas shared his concern before they had even made the first 
steps, cautious as ever. Hilderich briefly pondered such a 
scenario and with a wild grin on his face, before Amonas could 
react, he had tried to simply walk off the gangway into the 
churning lava below. He had stopped in mid air, with a silver 
sheen suddenly adorning the wispy air around his leg and knee, as 
if an invisible wall stood on each side of the gangway.

Amonas had sighed and scolded Hilderich in a fashion that made 
Hilderich laugh with all his heart. Amonas did not perceive the 
whole incident with the same amount of good humor and for quite 
some time he wore an expression of mild exasperation. If one did 
not know better he could have mistaken him as having his feelings 
genuinely hurt because of Hilderich's lack of consideration. It 
was dangerously immature, Amonas thought, for someone to behave 
so precariously in such a place of unknown danger and roaming 
uncertainty.

Hilderich did not seem to notice, and if he did, he seemed not to 
care. In fact, it seemed that he was impervious to anything less 
than the magnificence of the wonders, both natural and 
technological, that surrounded them while on that gangway.

While they were walking on the gangway with an easy pace, almost 
casually in fact, Hilderich asked Amonas without turning to look 
behind him:

“Impossible to imagine, isn't it?”

Amonas did not answer him, and remained silent as ever. He was 
not gazing around him like Amonas did, woolgathering. He seemed 
preoccupied, lost in wary thoughts of where all this might lead. 
He could still remember stepping on that pillar of light, and 
could certainly remember their tribulations in that hot steamy 
world with one sun and no moon.

But this place, this centron, where was this place if not on that 
same world? Where were they now? Until he would find these 
answers, his mind would not cease to worry. He tried to remember 
more of what the voice had been saying, but he had been utterly 
confounded by its explanations, if one could attribute that term 
to incoherent ramblings of a dubious nature. His mind was also 
still jarred by the headache that had subsided considerably by 
now, but a sting of it still lingered and made his thinking 
muddied and unclear, his most recent memories a blur.

It troubled him most that Hilderich's mind seemed to wonder. He 
had turned from a reserved, cautiously inquisitive man, into an 
enthusiastic juvenile that would not leave a rock unturned until 
he satisfied his insatiable lust for knowledge. He felt as if he 
had been forcibly restrained, not free to speak his mind. He had 
agreed to such a course, he was committed now. But he found it 
less and less wise with every passing minute.

They had found nothing to drink or eat, and every door that they 
had been able to open lead into what might have been living 
quarters, or other utility rooms. Some chambers contained metal 
crates they could not open and frustration had built up inside 
Amonas. Hilderich was so excited with each new little discovery 
that he seemed unperturbed by the fact that like all living 
things, they needed food and water, and they had found naught. As 
if the people that used to live here in ages past conjured their 
food out of thin air. To Amonas, this place was even harsher than 
the steamy wilderness they had left behind. At least there, they 
could find something to eat and drink.

And what of their vaunted attempts at gaining knowledge, Amonas 
thought with aggravation. What had they found out so far that 
they could use? Almost nothing of import. All they knew was that 
they were somewhere underground, and that they had found out when 
they ran across the cavern.

He sighed and looked at Hilderich in front of him, who seemed to 
be filled with vigor and an enthusiasm he had not thought 
possible. Perhaps he was rushing his judgment on this matter. It 
was in fact an unfortunate series of events that had led them 
here, to a bleak place that seemed to offer little, but they were 
here for mere hours. He supposed it was too early to expect much 
from their wanderings. But soon they would have to worry about 
sustenance, purely in a practical sense. Amonas decided to let it 
be for now, but he felt his unease would only grow given time.

Soon, they were standing at the end of the gangway, a small 
plateau opening before them, where the large gate stood, a work 
of man set against a jutting rock wall that seemed to crash upon 
the gate like a granite waterfall held in time.

Hilderich was marvelling at the dimensions of the gate. It seemed 
large enough for a siege engine of the army to pass through, 
almost three stories high and as wide as the keep. Hilderich 
wondered what manner of things, machines and people, had passed 
through these gates. It was indeed larger than any other gate he 
had seen. What manner of need had led to it being designed and 
built to these dimensions? Another mystery for him to solve when 
time allowed it, he thought.

Amonas spoke then, his voice sounding somewhat distant, as if his 
mind was removed elsewhere and he was merely glimpsing what 
surrounded him:

“What of it, now?”

Hilderich took notice of the strangeness in Amonas voice, but he 
did not pay too much attention to it. It was probably the aching 
headache that did not seem to be leaving him in peace. He turned 
then and replied to Amonas:

“Are you feeling alright? You seem.. distracted.”

“It's this headache. Won't leave me be. And I could use some 
water. Something to eat as well. Don't you hunger? Don't you 
thirst?”

There was a certain degree of exasperation in his voice now, 
which was focused, harsh, almost menacing suddenly.

“Yes.. You are right. We should make that a priority once we get 
past these gates.”

Amonas shook his head as if trying to clear his mind, as if his 
vision was blurry and his mind fumbling to find the words. He 
nodded then lightly, his gaze drifting away from Hilderich.

“Alright. I see. How do you propose we do that? Are there any 
levers? Any wheels to turn? Should we knock?”

Hilderich's brow was furrowed. He did not know what to make of 
Amonas' strange behavior. These mood swings and the evident 
trouble he had concentrating fully, these were things he would 
have to ask him about once they stopped. Preferably when they had 
something to eat. He was indeed beginning to feel famished. It 
was the endless fascination and enthusiasm that kept him going, 
the tension, the thrill. He noticed Amonas' was looking at him 
with an aggravated, expectant look, and answered him in an 
excusatory tone:

“Ahm. No, though it might come to that. Knocking, that is. There 
seem to be no visible controls no, which would suggest that this 
gate can only be opened from the inside. Or, that it's just 
another large door that opens up on itself like the ones before. 
We'll just have to see now.”

Amonas grunted with restrained disapproval and nodded. Hilderich 
had known Amonas to be circumspect at times, taciturn and almost 
spartan in his words sometimes, but he had never showed feeling 
of dislike or animosity towards him. He was beginning to feel 
that had somehow changed since they arrived in this place, the 
centron. Maybe he was having second thoughts about their change 
of plans. Maybe this place made him uneasy because of its 
otherworldliness, its antiquity. Maybe it was because they were 
still alone, not a soul in sight. With the exception of that 
weird voice, if it indeed had a soul.

After his brief inner contemplation, Hilderich stepped on the 
flattened plateau of rock. It seemed to be cut smoothly and then 
carefully smoothed, just short of turning its surface into a 
slippery, polished trap. He took a few more steps, and stood 
before the gate, gazing at its minimalistic features. It's singe 
door seemed to be made out of a dull grey, not a single ray of 
light reflected off its surface. It almost looked like stone, but 
it had no pores, no cuts, no graves.

Hilderich looked at it with one eye. It's flat grey surface 
reminded him of bricks made of argile and ash. The border of the 
gate were different, though. They were a uniform white material, 
almost porcelain-like, glossy, with a smooth reflective quality. 
The two pieces did not seem to fit together at all. Hilderich 
thought there should be some sort of adequate explanation for 
that, but whoever built this gate did not seem available for 
answers. Hilderich conjured the image of the builder of the gate 
being asked why the colors in his gate seemed wrong, and the 
childish thought brought a grin to his face.

As much as he looked, Hilderich indeed could not discern any sort 
of controls, levers, ropes, weights, wheels, nothing a gate would 
be associated with in his experience. Then again, it would have 
been almost ridiculous to expect such crude forms of mechanisms 
in such a landscape after what they had witnessed. But it never 
hurt to check the obvious things first. So, he simply leaned 
against the door, standing smack before the middle of the gate, 
and pushed.

Nothing seemed to happen. He turned around and looked at Amonas, 
shrugging his shoulders. His look was apologetic in nature, and 
at length he said to Amonas:

“I'm sorry. Nothing you would expect in a of this size. I guess 
we should try knocking after all.”

Hilderich thought Amonas had a very strange expression on his 
face. To him, it looked as if Amonas had felt incredibly stupid 
somehow, perhaps like if he had tried to cut a rope with his 
knife still sheathed, or poured himself a glass of wine from an 
empty bottle and drank it anyway. It was the look of a deeply 
dumbfounded man. Hilderich was suddenly worried, believing the 
man to be sick, in need of aid. At length, even though he seemed 
unable to speak, Amonas managed to point with his hand to the 
gate.

Hilderich turned around and to his great surprise, saw the door 
had vanished, a sight that defied the very sense of human sight 
assaulting his vision.

He was now standing in front of a hall of sorts, only the word 
did it no justice at all. It was a gargantuan circular chamber of 
immense radius, nothing short of a small plain. It must have been 
the area of a small township, complete with the surrounding 
fields. It would probably take them hours or the better part of a 
day to walk accross it. Its dimension in height was almost 
impossible to measure. The walls ran above his field of vision. 
And there was something about the lighting that seemed 
recognisable.

His feet moved of their own volition then, guiding him to enter 
this vast space proper, see better, even though sight alone was 
incapable of handling such a view. Air wafted down upon him, as 
if from an overhead opening. It was dry and chilly, almost cold. 
Instinctively, he looked up, expecting to see some sort of 
mind-boggling roof structure, something truly awe-inspiring as 
the rest of this vast enclosed space.

With a mix of terror, bewilderment, joy and disbelief that 
contorted his face in an almost painful way, what he saw, was 
clear blue sky set between the circular edges of the walls, as if 
looking down a very long pipe. The distance was immense, 
unimaginable. Sunlight shafted down in an angled column overhead 
and its reflections on the surface of the walls gave this place 
this familiar ambient light. As he looked up, he saw the bright 
ring of the sun appearing over the edge of the walls. In a moment 
or two, the pillar of light would fall on him, bathing him with 
light.

He turned around to Amonas, who stood where he was, transfixed. 
He called out to him, gesturing wildly with his hands to come and 
see for himself. Amonas shook suddenly, as if waking up from a 
living nightmare, almost trembling. He shook his head, and came 
to Hilderich's side with a brisk pace. His gaze wandered around 
as if this was a strange hall or just another chamber, unable to 
feel mesmerized at the impossibility of the scale surrounding 
them. He just said then:

“It's.. big. Very big. Huge, indeed.”

Hilderich spared a moment to look at him sideways. The 
significance of Hilderich's furrowed look was lost to Amonas, who 
looked extravagantly out of place, acting almost non-chalantly, 
something that was indeed very much unlike him. Hilderich did not 
press the matter, and instead point at the sky, the bright rim of 
the sun glinting at the far edge of the wall. He pointed upwards 
and said:

“Look how far these walls reach. This is colossal. The sun can 
barely reach this far down this sort of, shaft, for lack of a 
better word.”

“Hmm.”

Amonas suddenly looked thoughtful, as if contemplating not what 
Hilderich had said, but rather as if he was trying to come up 
with a better word than 'shaft'. Hilderich was about to ask 
Amonas about this sudden rush of strange behavior, but then the 
sun shone upon them, momentarily blinding them, causing them both 
to squint and use their hands to block out the sun.

In that small sliver of shade that allowed them to peep 
sheepishly at the sun, Hilderich could see its ring grow, the 
bright sphere grow larger. It look strange though. As the light 
had looked eerily familiar. The sun did not seem to give off that 
green hue. It looked.. normal, Hilderich thought. And then, he 
saw a sight that had sorely been missed. As the sun grew whole, 
another blueish ring appeared over the edge of the wall, at that 
other end of this huge shaft. A second sun. The second sun. There 
were two suns. They were home.

The realisation struck Hilderich like a sledgehammer, and he 
physically reeled from the place he stood. He was frantic, his 
gaze switching between Amonas and the sky with cataleptic speed. 
He opened his mouth as if to speak but he simply managed to gasp. 
All the while, Amonas was still looking at the suns, in a sort of 
peaceful gaze, the falling streaks of sunlight adding a glow to 
his face that made him look more splendid and grandiose than 
ever, despite his dishevelled look and ragged appearance.

Hilderich then shouted with glee:

“We're home! Can't you see? Two suns! Right there, up on the sky! 
Two suns, Amonas! We're here alright!”

Amonas turned to look at him slowly, almost indifferently, as if 
Hilderich had barely nudged him and asked for directions in the 
street. It was beginning to feel eerie to Hilderich, this 
behavior that was very much unlike Amonas. He behaved as if he 
was someone lost. Someone removed of identity, a hollowed out 
body, with barely a soul inside. They were home, Hilderich 
thought, and he was simply standing there looking back at him as 
if he had nothing better to do. He grabbed him by the arm and 
almost shook his entire body, as if Amonas offered little 
resistance. He looked him in the eye with an accusing stare and 
shouted in his face:

“We're home! Like you wanted! Like we wanted from the start! This 
place is somewhere on our world! Why aren't you at least excited? 
What is the matter with you, Amonas? You're acting like, like.. 
Like a stranger! Speak to me plainly!”

Amonas looked at Hilderich almost impassively with a look as if 
behind a fog, his mind seemingly wandering off to places without 
any connection to reality. It was as if he was in a dream haze, 
unable to wake up from a mystic slumber.

“Amonas! Don't look at me like that! Tell me, what is wrong with 
you! Don't you see, we're finally here!”

Amonas did not even flinch. He had actually remained quite 
motionless, his hands limp on his side, his face stuck in a 
slight grin, as if constantly mocking someone unseen. This could 
not be good, Hilderich thought. He shook him with both arms, 
trying to snap him out of whatever had enthralled him so. He 
shouted, cursed, he even slapped him twice, only once with some 
reserve. But it was all to no avail. It was as if the man's mind 
was gone. As if he was not there at all.

Hilderich realised with horror the truth of it. For some 
inexplicable reason, Amonas seemed to have lost his mind. It was 
there, carved upon his face. A glazed look, a deep blur set in at 
the center of his eyes, unmoving. His face had started to lose 
its color, and his mouth seemed locked in a half-smile. It was 
the face of an idiot unaware of everything going around him, lost 
in a sea of reality's debris none could hope to help him 
navigate. It was heart wrecking to see a man's mind lost in mere 
minutes.

Had it been the simply immeasurable vastness of the vista around 
them, this huge shaft that no mind could lay claim to even 
imagining it? Was it the sudden realisation of having returned 
home in a most inexplicable, wondrous, and even uncanny fashion? 
Was it the combination of both? What had weakened his strong, 
determined mind? What had broken a man who was ready to give up 
his life for his unborn child, for a different, if not a better 
future?

It was an ineffable loss. They had seen marvels none had ever 
dreamt before and had taken most of them in their stride, their 
sanity intact. It was almost a laughable joke to think that 
Amonas would lose his mind at that moment, after all they had 
seen. And yet, here he was, a little more than a breathing mass, 
completely disassociated with his surroundings. sank his spirits 
right when they should be laughing with all the heart or crying 
from the releases of such tension from so many days of hardship 
and uncertainty.

Hilderich for a moment thought that it might have been better if 
Amonas had died somewhere along the way. He would have at least 
had his body and mind as one, his soul intact. Now, he looked as 
if his soul had departed and left an empty mind rule over a 
hapless body. It brought tears to Hilderich's eyes. But he held 
them.

He was mended before, when the voice spoke to them. There was 
proof that the ailings of the body could be treated with 
unsurpassed excellence and rapidity here. Or at least by 
something around here. That could also stand true for a sickness 
of the mind. For what was madness, catatonia, or whatever else 
that had befallen Amonas, other than a sickness of the mind. For 
every sickness, there is a cure, Hilderich thought, and his face 
brightened up a little, hope returning to his eyes.

It seemed that their quest kept redefining itself. Now, he owed 
it to Amonas to make him whole again. And he should better start 
early. That meant he had to focus his mind, accept some harsh 
facts, and take the decisions that would lead them out of this 
very unfortunate situation.

He took Amonas by the arm, as if he was about to with a small 
child, carefully and softly. He did not seem to respond in any 
way, his posture unchanging and his gaze fixed to a point beyond 
sight. Hilderich tried to pull him by the hand, and with a slight 
lurch and a small misstep, he began to walk behind him, as if he 
were a blind man being led around by a trusted friend. Half that 
much, Hilderich thought, was true.

He could be moved around then, Hilderich thought bitterly, as if 
he was a blind man, or indeed an invalid, a man with an empty 
mind. It all felt wrong to him. Seeing Amonas in such a state was 
almost devastating. If such a man could be brought so low without 
warning, whatever else could happen to lesser men, Hilderich 
thought. He hoped Amonas' mind was so far gone he at least did 
not perceive himself through Hilderich's eyes or had any sort of 
knowledge or awareness of what had befallen.

If that was the case, Hilderich doubted Amonas could ever return 
to his normal self again, a tragically traumatic experience such 
as this one would be enough to break him by merely remembering 
it. He thought Amonas was a stronger man, in every aspect that 
really mattered in all this. If he was subject to such a 
downfall, then why not himself? For the first time in the past 
few days, real fear gripped him.

Not anxiety, not worry or wariness, but simple, pure fear. The 
piercing fear of someone's shadow behind your back. The fear of a 
man's knife, a howl into the night, thunder and lightning. Pure, 
primal, instinctive fear. He was alone, by himself. If he had 
been alone on that pyramid, if he had made it that far, he would 
have died with broken ribs, probably sunburnt to death before 
anything else, if it wasn't for Amonas. And now, he had to repay 
that life debt.

The suns were now shedding their light higher on the walls of the 
shaft, their bright spheres gone from Hilderich's sight. Now he 
had to address an issue that seemed to lack an easy solution. 
Where could one find food and water in this immensely vast space? 
He looked around him at the landscape stretching out in front of 
him. The floor was blue-grey and metallic. Various thin lines 
seemed to criss-cross it, as if forming a pattern. In fact he 
noticed that despite the immensity and the curved geometry of the 
walls, he could make out some shapes on the floor.

He let go of Amonas' arm for a while, and with a certain degree 
of trepidation made a few steps forward in order to examine such 
a curiosity. A relatively thick band of blue light seemed to seep 
through the floor. It went on and on, probably around the whole 
shaft. It was a very large blue circle them Hilderich thought. 
Giving little thought to the matter he stepped on it, and 
momentarily nothing seemed to happen.

But then he felt a brush of air on the back of his neck, and 
turned around to see that te gate had been shut again. Not only 
that, but only a few feet in front of him, the floor started to 
ripple with intensity, turning into a molten pool of what looked 
like quicksilver or mercury, light flickering off with intensity, 
Hilderich's figure grotesquely reflected in a constantly shifting 
mirror surface.

He stepped back instinctively, fear gripping him. Like the fear 
he had felt earlier, the fear of losing his mind like poor Amonas 
had. This was the same kind of fear, only much more aggravated, 
much more intense, and simply immediately in front of him. The 
pool of molten metal rose like a geyser of sorts, bulbous shapes 
taking over its surface. It grew as if a column of mud had been 
raised from the floor, only it was silver and mirror-like. Then 
it suddenly took form in mere moments, each step distinct but 
inhumanly quick. It was as if an invisible sculptor and an 
artisan were putting together a piece of work, something between 
a statue and a machine.

Hilderich could make out now the forming of metal upon metal, the 
joints between plates. Whatever this thing was, it's form seemed 
to derive little inspiration from the human body. It was shaping 
itself into an oblong, almost like an egg. In its final steps of 
transformation from a pool of metal into a much more tangible 
existence, it seemed as if an inner blue light faintly lit its 
top and bottom parts, a thin band of black opaque glass running 
through it, from top to bottom, as if it was about to split 
itself in half.

Once it was finally formed, it hovered in the air right in front 
of Hilderich, barely touching the ground. The whole process was 
done in the time it would take a man to draw his sword in a 
misunderstood attempt at quite probably futile defense. Something 
that could appear out of a metal floor in such a place, was 
definitely not something you could kill with a sword.

And then a terrifying sound assaulted Hilderich's senses, a 
terrible high-pitched screech that boomed and echoed like the 
primordial lightning storm that bore the universe and all 
creation: 

“KILLKILKILLKILKILEEOEEOMEOMOEEMEOEOMOEMOME!!”

Hilderich tried put his hands to his ears but he was frozen 
half-way when the world-shattering cacophony ended abruptly and 
it's place took a buffeting silence, his ears still buzzing from 
the loudness. Then the metal egg, machine, whatever it was, 
bobbed slightly as if trying to mimick a human's bow. It spoke in 
a normal, pleasant voice, that seemed to be gibberish.

Hilderich's brow furrowed and though his fear had somehow 
subsided, he was feeling terminally uneasy. Amonas was standing 
behind him, slack like before, the signs of a slight drool 
beginning to show on the corner of his mouth where his grin 
became lopsided. He looked with puzzlement at this construct, and 
could find nothing to say. It seemed to be unable to communicate 
with him. After a brief pause, the machine started spewing forth 
an uninterrupted series of sounds, like words, in rapid 
succession, as if it was searching a certain word, a certain 
sound, and tried many different ones. Hilderich couldn't be sure 
but perhaps it could be trying to communicate. At length he 
decided to try and say something. He thought the most apt thing 
to do, was greet it. And so he did, with some hesitation and a 
slight feeling of fear that he might be making a fool of himself 
to an invisible audience:

“Greetings. My name is Hilderich D'Augnacy.”

The construct stopped babbling incessantly in unknown tongues and 
suddenly spoke in perfect Helican:

“Greetings? What tree did you fell off. Sorry about that 
screaming just a minute ago. It was a joke. You should have seen 
your face. Maybe not. Get's boring around here, hope you 
understand there's not much to kill time. You guys seemed fair 
game. Hope I didn't scare you to death.”

The construct bobbed again and wiggled its larger rounder base a 
little. The emotion that it intended to convey was completely 
lost to Hilderich. Nevertheless, he thought that actually 
communicating was wonderful indeed, so he didn't give it a second 
thought and smiled, somewhat restrained, but genuinely polite.

“A joke? No, I'm fine. I did not think it was funny though, but 
don't take it as an insult. From what I'm told, I'm quite 
humorless.”

The egg-shaped metal hull boomed with a knowing voice:

“So you're in accounting? Or taxes?”

Hilderich simply blinked.

“Another joke. Wow, you're a hard audience. Anyway, Hilderich, 
was it? You can call me Centron.”

“The Centron? This place? It's you?”

The construct made another weird motion. This time it reminded 
Hilderich of a child's snigger.

“I'll give you the straight answer. It is me, it's all me. 
Technically, it's the other way around. Meaning that this is just 
a construct I am using to speak to you, instead of talking 
straight to your mind, or appearing as a flaming God or some 
other of my past avatars. It's not the most successful one, I 
know, but I think it's quite elegant, for an avatar. Sleek, 
aerodynamic. Well, fluidynamic. Get it? Air is also a fluid? I'm 
not getting through to you at all, eh? Sorry. Got carried away 
again.”

“You are a strange.. What should I call you? Are you another 
person, talking through this device? Are you something else 
entirely? Are you simply a voice, like the one that talked to us 
right before we got here?”

Amonas was sitting at the floor now, legs sprawled, hands 
supporting his body. He was looking upwards through the shaft, as 
if something really interesting floated high up above them.

“Who? What? I'm a person, I have rights, feelings, emotional 
problems, everything that comes with being a perfectly normal 
highly-evolved AI stuck on a shitty job.”

The metal egg stood right on the ground, perfectly balanced now.

“I do not know what an hei-eye is. But I understand I can address 
you as a person. You speak of a job? Why would you need money on 
a place like this?”

“Who said anything about money? Huh, everytime I complain I'm 
doing this for free noone gets the joke either. It's a job, 
someone has to do it. I thought I'd give it a swing. You know, a 
world at your fingertips, battles raging, years going by, changes 
in scenery. But this latest one's been a drag. I mean, someone 
should seriously think about abdicating. I mean this is getting 
ridiculous. Actually, it has been ridiculous for I don't know, at 
least a thousand revolutions around the binary. That's forty-two 
standardized universals. Man, forty-two standard!”

The egg flashed with a bright blue glow from its black band and 
shot upward about a foot high suddenly. Hilderich thought that 
was to stress his point. It failed to do so quite completely 
though, because he could not understand the real significance of 
those numbers. He did make a mental note though that forty-two 
standards was too much.

“I'm baffled at all this. I'm sure that you could explain them in 
a much more detailed fashion, but before you do that, I have to 
ask of you a favor. My friend, over there, seems to have 
regressed to a catatonic state of mind. I fear he might have lost 
it completely.”

“Lost it completely, you say? Did you check his pockets?”

The avatar of Centron made another motion akin to giggling, but 
after looking at Hilderich's red-faced expression he spoke with 
much more sobriety:

“I won't do it again, I promise, sometimes I can't help myself. I 
know I'm not good at it, but can you blame? Got no one to 
practice with. So, about your friend. Well, yeah, I might seem 
flashy and really bad at making jokes but I think I can find out 
what's wrong with him. We'll have to get him to the Den though. 
Can't do delicate work with avatar-quality fields. You wouldn't 
want your friend to make like a duck happily for the rest of his 
life, would you?”

Centron's avatar flashed a blue glow running up and down his 
black band, probably an indication of laughter, or something to 
that effect. It did not carry through to Hilderich.

“Well, then. Enough dicking around I guess. Hop on, we'll be 
there shortly.”

In only a few moments, in a fashion similar to the one before, 
the avatar turned from an egg into a multi-wheeled vehicle with a 
single seat, and what seemed to be a stretcher at the back. There 
appeared to be no controls. There was a sort of tent or awning as 
well, perhaps in order to offer some short of shade from the 
sunlight, but Hilderich thought it was quite superfluous. Though, 
Hilderich thought, transforming at will to any shape imaginable 
was certainly an ability that shunted necessities and favoured 
whim and fancy above all. Perhaps he could ask, later.

The vehicle went to the side of Amonas, and gently carried him of 
his feet and onto the stretcher, all the while maintaining his 
posture. Even if he hadn't lost his mind and knew where he was 
standing at, Amonas would not have been troubled the least. Once 
he was put on the stretcher, the vehicle-avatar spoke to 
Hilderich:

“Come on. Get in. On. Whatever, I've got no doors anyway.”

Hilderich indulged the avatar with a smile and took his seat. 
Then, the avatar said with a gleeful note in his voice:

“Look, no hands!”

And then they zipped off with an unprecedented feeling of 
acceleration, like being swept by an angel indeed, Hilderich 
thought. There was no other uncomfortable sensation, like the 
forceful rush of air against his face. Indeed, it was barely 
possible to notice they were moving with dazzling speed, and that 
only if one took very careful notice of the shaft above. 
Hilderich asked, sitting comfortably, quite pleasantly bewildered 
and not at all wary:

“So, where are you taking us?”

The reply came with a slow quality, as if mocking someone of 
visibly lesser intellectual capacity:

“The Den. Duh.”

“What is that place?”

“It's the Den, man. The Den. His Den. The Sleeping Man's Den. Get 
it?”

“The sleeping man's den? Won't we be intruding?”

“Yeah, right. Like you're gonna wake him up.”

“He is in a deep sleep then?”

“Man, the Sleeping Man's always asleep. How is he gonna play 
anyway?”

“Play?”

“Yeah, you know play the game. The end game. The final. I thought 
you guys were here to watch.”

“Watch.. the game?”

“You're spectators, right? Visitors? You know, for the final 
game.”

Hilderich was suddenly silent, as if contemplating heavily his 
next few words. The avatar said before he could answer:

“Well you had a ticket, you got in. How could you not get in 
without a ticket. You're not one of those looney bins I get from 
time to time, are you?”

A game of chess

  An inviolable voice

  A sermon of fire and blood

  The game board

  Homeward

Epilogue

