#LyX 1.6.7 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family sfdefault
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\paperwidth 10cm
\paperheight 14cm
\topmargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
This is the third day since we crashed at Toluk Valley.
 I am Lieutenant Zebadiah Forrester, 53rd Valkyrie Squadron on detachment
 from 3rd Colonial Battle group to Stratix colony, Thibadault system, Korpulu
 sector.
 I am writing this log, this journal, in the aftermath of the Protoss attack
 on New Fredricksberg.
 As far as I know, I'm the only surviving member of my squadron.
 My crewman died in the wreckage of our Valkyrie, and I accept responsibility
 for his death.
 I keep telling myself I couldn't pull him out in time without killing myself
 in the process, but the fact remains he is dead and I'm alive, probably
 not for long though..
 I am living on food and water rations, and the barren landscape of the
 northern regions here is as friendly as a Zerg.
 Precipitation is within the error margins and the only plant life I have
 encountered so far are mollusks and some kind of fungous algae already
 known to be lethally poisonous.
 I should have headed for the equator.
 When the Protoss came in force, I was patrolling the area south of New
 Fredricksberg, along with my wingman Paul Anacheim, God rest his soul.
 We picked up strong signals of a Zerg infestation and naturally we radioed
 in and maxed our 'burners further south, puzzling over how we had missed
 something that big on earlier sweeps.
 The rest of the squadron got on the air and we regrouped for a reconnaissance
 in force.
 When we flew over the designated area it became clear we had been duped;
 the signal came from a modified psi-beacon, a lure to weaken our aerial
 defenses.
 Their coordination was flawless.
 The exact moment we called in to warn New Fredricksberg, three Protoss
 Cruisers decloaked within range of the base defenses.
 Before we lost contact HQ mentioned several attached units to the Cruiser
 fleet and ordered a withdrawal to the predesignated scattering points all
 over Stratix.
 We chugged that order with the blink of an eye, and very soon we would
 learn the value of military discipline anew.
 When we entered the fray all we managed was to make new craters on Stratix'
 surface.
 The turret defenses and walls had already been laid to waste allowing the
 Protoss to pour in and surgically strike our vehicle depots, crippling
 our ability to defend with any chance of success.
 We tried to take down the Cruisers, but their Scouts forced us into a dogfight
 we were never meant to survive.
 We were taking heavy fire from multiple directions, with Dragoons, Scouts
 and the Cruisers' drones concentrating on our path.
 Formations, tactics and strategy became meaningless.
 Every twist and turn to avoid enemy fire just pitched us into some other
 target reticle.
 I saw some of our Valkyries fall like bricks from the sky without taking
 a single hit, probably because of some Arbiter.
 Very aptly we lost cover, scattered, and became prey, hunted and put down
 by the Protoss' precise and coordinated salvos.
 Being herded and culled like sheep, my instincts kicked in and I did what
 every animal does in fear of death; I fled.
 I diverted all energy to maximum thrust, shutdown weapons systems and trusted
 my pilot skills.
 In earnest, I crossed my fingers and prayed.
 Finding an opening throughout that maelstrom of plasma fire was next to
 impossible but a small gap presented itself and I hurried to take advantage,
 with Paul running on auxiliary power right behind me.
 Fleeing the massacre, I caught a glimpse of a Thor behemoth surrounded
 by a cloud of Cruiser drones, being brought down like a bewildered giant,
 stung by bees, with Zealots biding their time around it like it was carrion
 fowl.
 I checked my scanner and the sky behind me.
 One after another my fellow pilots were being picked out like flees and
 sent hurtling down to the undeserved anonymity of 'battle casualties'.
 After a few minutes, we were the last ones still flying.
 A lurking Scout angled in on me and caught me off-guard, unable to react.
 In that split second Paul having no weapons operational swung around and
 rammed that Scout at full thrust, forming a lava-like globule of ceramite
 and metal, spiraling down in a fiery waltz of death.
 I think I meant to cry out his name, but all I managed was to empty my
 stomach compulsively.
 The shock of barely surviving the onslaught, perhaps the feeling of cowardice
 and inadequacy as well, had left me dazed and numb.
 I found myself flying aimlessly over the empty landscape of the Vysgard
 Region, endless miles of tundra rushing past me, my mind blank and my soul
 silent.
 Crewman Dowty called in the intercom, arousing me from my reverie, suggesting
 that we should at least try to contact the civilian lab complex in the
 north polar region, in order to sent word to Dominion Headquarters, while
 perhaps securing some form of passage from Stratix back to our Battle group
 or wherever else Command would deem best.
 We both knew it would be folly to linger around while the Protoss mopped
 up the Terran presence in the System.
 And we had a duty to evacuate as many people as possible, now that we had
 failed to keep anyone safe.
 A few minutes after changing vector towards Scott's Landing the master
 caution alarm sounded and while I was trying to get readings of the holographic
 display, everything went dead.
 I lost every single system on board and as far as I can tell nothing hit
 us, at least nothing I had ever seen or heard before.
 I threw the mechanical master switch on and tried to glide on actuators
 only, quickly scanning the ground for a suitable stretch of land to perform
 an emergency landing.
 I jettisoned every piece of ordnance and the energy core trying to save
 some weight and extend flight time but eventually I had to accept we'd
 be going in hard.
 I fought with the controls and strained the Valkyrie to design limits but
 luck was not the order of the day and on our way down I had to fly through
 a maze of rocky spires that over-watched the intended landing site.
 I lost my left stabilizer and an engine core erupted in flames, the Valkyrie
 went into a hard leftward spin and the ejection system was crippled by
 the impact.
 I just closed my eyes and braced for impact.
 When I woke up it must've been the smell of ammonia from the coolant system
 that leaked all around my cockpit.
 I checked my extremities for injuries and sent a comm to Dowty who did
 not reply.
 I unbuckled my harness and jumped out of the cockpit with a jolt to check
 up on Dowty.
 The smell of ammonia turned into chemical fumes and the characteristic
 smell of red hot ceramite.
 What remained of the Valkyrie would quickly become a smoldering hulk, the
 fire spreading relentlessly.
 Dowty was probably unconscious because of the fumes and a failed respirator
 unit, and every breath of his inched him closer to permanent brain damage
 and death.
 I tried to force his canopy open, but Dowty's cockpit compartment was deformed
 from the mechanical stresses of the impact.
 I emptied a clip from my auto-pistol trying to lodge it free, but to no
 avail.
 I tried to use some broken fuel line as a lever but it would not even budge.
 My flight suit indicators flashed red for toxic/radioactive lethal materials
 in proximity.
 I had to get out of there but that meant I had to leave Dowty behind.
 I reassured myself there was nothing more I could do and decided in an
 instant to live with what I now know to be murder on my hands.
 I grabbed my survival kit and comm unit and started off with a jogging
 pace towards the north.
 I did not stop for an hour and then I fell on my knees from exhaustion.
 I crawled under a rock outcropping that seemed to offer shelter from the
 harsh winds and cried myself to sleep, hugging my kit and praying that
 I would never wake up again.
 When I did wake up, I checked my chronometer by force of habit and realized
 I had slept for more than a day.
 The sun was at high noon in the sky, and the rocks offered little shadow.
 I extrapolated my location relative to the crash site as accurately as
 possible and realized that if I kept a bristle walking pace I could arrive
 at the lab complex by nightfall.
 A more stealthy approach of moving only at night would keep me idle for
 many hours and I would only spend them brooding over everything.
 I decided to move hastily but with caution in mind.
 Hours went by with no change in scenery; the arid tundra was an almost
 ashen pitch of white with a few red tufts of plant life.
 A few dirt mounds and small rock formations were not enough to help me
 get my bearings so for the most part I trudged along blindly and trusted
 my instincts and polymap.
 I stopped only twice, once to rest my legs and have some rations, and once
 more when I came upon the remains of a Protoss Scout.
 Unlike the Valkyrie, the Scout seemed unharmed; no signs of being fired
 upon, no catastrophic damage on its hull, only some minor impact damage.
 A successful emergency landing if I read the signs right.
 I approached the Scout warily, drawing my sidearm auto pistol and cautiously
 checking for signs of a trap.
 I had no intentions of dying on the ground like a hungry mouse.
 Nothing happened when I entered the unfamiliar cockpit of the Scout and
 scrounged for anything that might seem important or helpful.
 From the dirt railing on the ground this Scout seemed to have made a controlled
 landing while flying north.
 I could not understand why the Protoss pilot had not waited for a rescue
 mission.
 Instead it seemed he actually trode off on the same vague direction as
 mine.
 It seemed to lack sense, but who knows how the Protoss think.
 I realized I had tarried for too long and picked up my pace once again.
 As calculated by nightfall I could plainly see the communications tower
 of Scott's Landing.
 Thankfully it appeared to be in one piece, unmolested insofar by the Protoss
 war machine.
 In the hazy backdrop Larrigan's Fall dominated the horizon, the kilometer
 wide and unfathomably deep chasm that had intrigued Sector Science Command
 to setup a research facility here in the first place.
 I had heard stories about how pilots, struck by cabin fever, flew races
 inside Larrigan's Fall, more for the exhilaration and adrenaline and less
 for the bets involved.
 Money had little value here and buying your tour of duty was something
 a marine would do if he could; never a Valkyrie pilot.
 As a flight jockey, I'm almost glad there's always a war going on.
 I'd hate to toil away my life on a megacorp industrial planet or die of
 radiation and mineral poisoning on a backwater system.
 Even when fighting those Cruisers..
 I hope I can die fighting one of those.
 Once I approached Scott's Landing perimeter I noticed there was very little
 activity if any at all.
 No posted guards, no patrol vehicles, no busy personnel.
 Perhaps there was a lockdown in place or they had already evacuated when
 the Protoss struck elsewhere.
 Perhaps they had been able to get communications working through the ionostatic
 interference that had kept me out of touch since the attack on New Fredricksber
g.
 Maybe the fleet was on its way.
 I still don't know.
 I trudged along past search and rescue vehicles, SCVs, depots, drilling
 equipment and various stacks and heaps of materiel I was not entirely familiar
 with and reached an access shaft elevator that seemed locked.
 With a little luck and some tampering from my behalf I managed to get inside.
 I pushed to talk to someone in charge but I got only static.
 A quick view on the reference map of the facility made me push for the
 command sector level but it seemed to be inaccessible.
 I just pushed for the first level right below, personnel quarters.
 Surely, I thought, I'd find some of the personnel, get briefed and notified
 and perhaps even some warm meal and a bath before everything else.
 I was soon disillusioned and the brief spell of feeling safe and secure
 was shattered.
 The elevator opened into a narrow and utilitarian metal passageway, badly
 lit by a phosphorescent grid running all along the length of this corridor.
 With walls made from ceramite panels, forming standard design blocks row
 after row, I was reminded of our own barracks, though there was a different
 feeling about this place.
 There were little or no smells, no sounds, no graffiti, no chipping on
 walls and surfaces.
 These quarters were brand new.
 But Scott's Landing had been in operation longer than New Fredricksberg.
 Maybe this level had been renovated but in wartime, out here, renovation
 was an euphimism for 'blowing up'.
 What is more important was that there was not a soul in sight, nowhere
 on the level.
 I searched every block and every room.
 All I found was a few wardrobes in a mess, and unfinished coffee cups in
 the cafeteria.
 Someone did leave in a hurry but I still don't know where to.
 The walk here and the search have made me groggy.
 I need sleep.
 I'll continue my search tomorrow, I think the Protoss have either been
 here before me or they will not be coming.
 I need to find what happened and more importantly, I need a way off-planet.
 I'll add any findings to this log.
 After all the past misfortunes I hope for the best.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am Neramon, Dark Templar and Zeratul's former ally.
 I found this journal on the body of the Terran named Zebadiah Forrester.
 I was not responsible for his gruesome death, and had I been able I would
 try and prevent it.
 Alas, I am also in peril and I fear the worst has yet to come.
 I'll continue the telling Zebadiah started, because it seems this will
 be the only record of what has and will probably transpire, and his story
 so far is relevant to my mission here on the world of Stratix.
 The downed Scout he encountered was mine, and indeed I was headed to this
 Terran facility when I lost control.
 The Terran Valkyrie and my Scout had the same fate due to the same strange
 emanations that originated here, from Scott's Landing, and according to
 our Scripture, Melenos.
 I did not wish for my rescue from Protoss forces; they are unaware of my
 work here, and for good reason.
 I believe them to be tainted.
 I am in search of proof of that taint.
 Patiently I watched as our forces were poised to strike on Stratix for
 peculiar reasons.
 The terrans had no significant presence here, and the Zerg swarms have
 not yet spoiled this world.
 Yet, we prepared an assault of disproportionate strength, as if using a
 hammer to swat a fly.
 It did not sit well.
 I observed from the shadows, measuring our commanders, outlining our purpose.
 At first I found it distasteful, but in the days that were to come the
 beast of corruption reared its hideous head.
 Some of the commanders assigned had taken part in dubiously infamous campaigns,
 some had not tasted battle, and for some their ancestry was hidden, veritably
 erased.
 I had the indications of a plot alien in origin.
 I acted with vigilance, and using my psionic potency stowed away inside
 the Carrier strike force to the Thibadault system.
 On Stratix, I felt a disturbing sense of uneasiness, a pulsating source
 of fearfully strong psionic emanations that I could not identify.
 While our forces prepared for the imminent attack, I focused on the energies
 that had assaulted me locating their very source, somewhere to the north.
 As I subdued a Scout pilot, bending his will to my cause and taking his
 place, a search on the planetary map caused me to fixate on a single point,
 the giant rift of Melenos, an unmistakably unique feature.
 When the first waves of Scouts were ordered into the air, I launched with
 the intention of when the opportunity arose, flee towards the north unnoticed
 for as long as possible, gathering as much information and returning to
 the Protoss host as fast as possible, blending in again like the night
 wisps of Acheron.
 Intentions though are often misled.
 Indeed when the massed might of our forces fell upon the Terrans, I was
 for an instant mesmerized in awe at the power we had unleashed at those
 poor souls.
 It was truly shameful that power was put to such use, when our brothers
 elsewhere bled in agony and sorrow.
 This was mischief and arrogance on a grand scale.
 This was not the Protoss way.
 I sympathize with the Terran Zebediah, it was madness.
 In the midst of the slaughter, I bitterly turned north while the mayhem
 below me occluded any prying eyes.
 Within miles of the rift I noticed a Terran complex that had not been marked
 on any map I had seen and suddenly, as if passing through an invisible
 Arbiter field, I lost control of my Scout and plunged onto the surface
 of Stratix.
 Unable to fly properly I used my psi powers to safely glide to a halt.
 The strain was tenuous, but I managed to land, though poorly.
 I lost no time in assesing the damage to the Scout since while this huge
 field remains in place I believe it impossible to use the craft again,
 even if it was flightworthy.
 Hurriedly I made good speed for the terran structures and had soon lost
 the craft from sight.
 With my mind pondering the many unknowns and my psi-powers still ebbing,
 the hydralisks achieved total surprise.
 The first one leapt up in front of my path, only allowing me enough time
 to activate my shield.
 It pounced on the shield with vehement strikes of relentless fury, blueish
 sparks and the smell of ozon filling every breath of mine.
 As I regained my composure and prepared to focus for a psi-blast, my senses
 warned of me two more assailants flanking me on each side.
 Indeed, corrosive acid was being flung from these fast approaching instruments
 of terror, closing in for the kill.
 Surely a bland way to test the mettle of a Dark Templar.
 With my shield quickly being depleted, I reached to my innermost depths
 and communed with the Nexus, unleashing a blast of psychic power that stripped
 the Zerg of all life, their limp husks a morbid reminder.
 Overextending the reach of my powers I had also spent my physical stamina
 and endurance.
 With no other suitable place in the tundra devoid of natural shelter, I
 dug into the burrow of the Zerg and fell into a deep limbic trance, and
 dreamt not.
 The nightmares where yet to be seen, with my own eyes, in the flesh.
 The last few decades have spurred conflict and debate my people had not
 encountered for millenia.
 Most knowledge of the past has been forgotten and placed in the realm of
 mythos, fiction and stories as an educational past time, irrelevant to
 the reality that consumes us with its bleakness.
 Regrettably, I know this to be false.
 I have bathed in the sacred knowledge of our Scripture and have uncovered
 links and paths I am woe to traverse, but feel compelled and indeed obliged
 by fate and duty to follow to the very end.
 There is darkness in our past, but there are darker corners still waiting
 to be met, and Stratix is a fulcrum, with our galaxy hanging in a precipitous,
 uneasy balance.
 For decades I have toiled in our Libraries and Sanctums uncovering truths
 insofar inapproachable considered by most, if not all, taboo.
 Myths interwoven with facts and riddles to be solved, hampered my progress.
 Patiently I connected pieces of information, researching, visiting distant
 worlds and forgotten moons.
 I enlisted the help of Terrans with no prejudice of race or much affinity
 to the ethics of war - profit being their sole belief in the cosmos.
 I regret to have used some of my brothers as well, sometimes as decoys,
 other times as pawns, and ultimately as victims, but it was for a purpose
 that knows no compassion and leaves no soul unscarred.
 Finally, my sacrifices began to bear fruit.
 I had evidence to believe that the conflict that had ravaged this sector
 of space and had pitted Terrans and Protoss against each other and their
 own, was no mere consequence of greed, hate and simple power lust.
 It had other, far darker origins, and far wider reaching implications.
 This war that has been raging on and on will have no victor.
 It will only end in fire and doom.
 Unless I can share the ultimate truth and lift the veil over our minds
 that has kept us tearing at each other's throat like rabid Zergs.
 So fitting.
 Zergs.
 To think of the Zerg as a mindless scourge, a swarm that only seeks proliferati
on, to treat them as animals without conscience or deeper purpose was a
 mistake we still regret, both Terrans and Protoss.
 The betrayed turned traitor, Kerrigan, the once Terran female, a psy-sensitive
 operative, now Queen of Blades.
 How little we understood, how little we know even after all that has transpired
 and has been written on so many worlds, with so much blood, so much sacrifice.
 I shiver with fear and tremor with anger.
 I am not alien to these emotions.
 I feel they have above all kept me alive and driven me true in my endeavour
 so far.
 The Zerg are not enemies; they are not friends either.
 They are weapons, tools, but who wields them so carelessly, so frivolously?
 Who unleashed them upon our worlds and brought destruction and the all-consumin
g fear of the swarm to every living soul, save few that history will - indeed
 if any history will remain - immortalise in legend, scripture and the memory
 of all that live through these ravenous times? We Dark Templars are known
 to use stealth and cunning to our advantage, bordering treachery and manipulati
on to achieve our goals.
 We remained hidden and secluded for millenia, before it was deemed necessary
 to reveal ourselves once more, to offer our aid and advice, lend a hand
 to our brothers and bridge a chasm so wide few of us believed it possible.
 I'm afraid there are powers at be far more masterful in those arts than
 we could ever believe existed, and certainly not hidden in plain sight,
 occluding our eyes, hearts and minds as a wall of sleep.
 Mayhap Tassadar had broken that veil and had in his last moments known
 the real impact and meaning of his sacrifice.
 The Xel'Naga are here; I believe they never left.
 Our Scripture vaguely references the Ancient and Venerable Xel' Naga, a
 race long ago forgotten, reduced to lore and myth more eagerly than prudence
 advised.
 A race that had only left faint echoes of their existence in the ruins
 we happened upon in our infant steps to the stars.
 An archaic peculiarity, to be catalogued and indexed properly, its significance
 ignored and left behind, perhaps not in earnest vanity and pride, but more
 by design.
 The powerful psychic emanations of the Xel' Naga became a hindrance to
 further exploration of their history, and in a few hundred years the Xel'
 Naga were all but forgotten.
 In chorus, the High Council denied any and all to delve deeper, search
 for more temples, uncover the mysteries of such an old race that built
 huge temples of unknown purpose and power before the Protoss could even
 walk on their homeworld.
 Their ruins, lore and artifacts were buried once more under layer upon
 layer of bureaucracy, religious taboo and plain denial by Librarians and
 Sanctums.
 Records were lost and quite possibly destroyed and the Xel' Naga became
 a myth for scholars of little accolade, and thus they evaded our vigilance
 for too long.
 For when Zeratul came upon the Zerg/Protoss hybrid on Braxxis it was Samir
 Duran, a Xel' Naga agent that had schemed to create this horror, biding
 his time, using resources impossible for a sole renegade Terran to acquire
 by accident or chance.
 I am seeking evidence that right here, on Stratix, there are far worse
 experiments taking place, and for far longer than we would hope.
 To my knowledge, longer than the Terran presence here, and certainly not
 on Scott's Landing, but on Melenos, the Xel' Naga temple hidden deep down
 in the chasm of Larrigan's Fall, built on the edge of the planet's mantle,
 feeding on its raw energy, fueling a purpose so dark and sinister I myself
 refuse to accept as real.
 The wounds on the Terran's body were those of a psi-blade; a Protoss traitor
 or perhaps a puppet of the Xel' Naga.
 Are they not the same? I found him lying in a pool of his own blood in
 one of the sleeping quarters.
 The clotted blood and foul stench indicate more than a few hours since
 his death; he was caught off-guard in his sleep.
 The thought of murdering a warrior while sleeping, denying him any chance
 of a fair fight, sickens me.
 There is too much malice at work here, darkness seems but a word compared
 to the void I feel eating away my very existence.
 The whole facility seems abandoned in haste but I believe none have really
 escaped, certainly not the planet as Zebadiah hoped.
 I managed to search the further levels, always minding my step, always
 stretching my psi-powers for a warning, ready to meet any foe that might
 try to strike me from the shadows.
 It seemed that I have managed to stay out of their way, or they simply
 await me to lower my guard.
 Whatever the reason, I have not met anyone else, friend or foe, for better
 or worse.
 A large elevator mechanism seems to have gone far below in the depths of
 the chasm.
 I believe the Terrans here were persuaded by force to don hazard suits
 and descend to Melenos in order to serve as unwilling subjects to horrors
 unimaginable, paling in comparison even with the worse the Zerg have to
 offer.
 I fear my powers and training will prove inadequate should I be discovered
 and fall prey to the likes of liers and traitorous mischievous beings of
 power ancient and malevolent such as the Xel' Naga.
 No matter; I am still Neramon, Protoss Dark Templar.
 It should suffice even if I fail.
 Others will follow, even if I am deemed a raving heretic and a mad apostate.
 So be it.
 Poor Zebadiah had no inkling of all this, and only wished to die a warrior's
 death, proud and wholesome, meaningful and useful to his race, his comrades
 in arms.
 In that, we should hope that we are more alike with the Terrans than some
 would have us believe.
 My soul itches to know that there is hope for both our people, and as long
 as hope lasts, I shall never stop, I shall never falter in my stride.
 I, Neramon of Antioch, take this vow; I shall bring the Xel' Naga to the
 light, and will fight alongside any who will join me, be they Protoss,
 Terran or Zerg.
 The coming tide grows strong; Who will help me stem it? 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
