#LyX 1.6.7 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family sfdefault
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize a4paper
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\paperwidth 10cm
\paperheight 14cm
\topmargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
POST MORTEM - Forge of Stones
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Part I 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter - Prologue
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - The Dancer
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A bit heavy on the prose, perhaps too much.
 An air of mysticism that I never use again.
 An okay intro for Amonas' and Celia.
 The fact they have performed a ceremony (indeed, a wedding ceremony), does
 not come across.
 Needed some more bits prolly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - The Curator
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It's an okay section, maybe the action scene was a little too easy.
 There's not much in the way of explaining what the Curator (Cirom) really
 knew, but then again this works probably better in the end.
 Not sure about having to blow up the place.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - The jester
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nice prose, nice jester, nice Castigator, nice hall.
 Only thing that bothers me is the fact that Perconal was supposedly black
 sometime in the past, and now he's posing as a whiteish if not dark-skinned
 jester.
 There's the tiniest possibility that by mark or colours I meant flag or
 sign, but that's a connotation even I had to strain myself to accept.
 The whole Perconal character is drawn up together with chalk.
 Oh, and the poem had no use.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - The boatman
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I wish the boatman sounded a bit like 'cuttin-me-own-throat' Dibblah, but
 he doesn't, not really.
 It's how I introduce Molo, who comes accross as a bit reticent young fellow.
 Kind of okay, with the fewer problems.
 Geography in the novel is a bit irrelevant as well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - The Pilgrim
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have no problems with this one, I think it's really nice.
 The whole of the character in fact, except in the end scenes, perhaps.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter - The City of Pyr
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Dangers of the trade
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I think the city's description is a bit thin.
 I only actually describe the market, the center of the city.
 There's little or no mention of the surrounding geography.
 Perhaps I should have let more of that in, but then again, nothing much
 happens over there.
 It's perhaps a bit more cinematic, focusing on what the eye should be seeing,
 but then again I'm not sure.
 Other than that, the action part is fine I believe.
 Perhaps a bit too much stress on the murderers and the beggars and the
 scum.
 Should it look worse? Or not good enough? I mean, in a theocratic regime,
 would there be so many of those people? Too late now.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Inescapable Reality
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Well, the dialogue comes across a bit childish, at least Hilderich.
 Though he is young, and just a curator's apprentice.
 On the other hand, Amonas comes across a bit like a fanatic, or a zealot.
 The premise is a bit thin, but then again perhaps we can account for that
 because Amonas had been mind-programmed, or something to that effect.
 My main issue is how Hilderich comes along for the ride, though not really
 in it, like surrendering too easily.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Darkly lit night
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I think it's okay, as far as grandiose scenes with lots of people go.
 There's some extraneous stuff like Zealin and Parnoth, but some of it I
 used, and it's a nice bit of flavor that I don't mind about.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - The marble road
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It's perhaps too small, too much for a second entry - perhaps the boatman
 should have been left out, or keep either one.
 This one's basically better, gives a more complete picture of Molo and
 his purpose for journeying.
 The marble road was a lot different in the beginning, now it's only a mention.
 Not much here.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Under a livid sky
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The main problems here are not style, rather than essence: Why is there
 a secret tubing inside ? perhaps part of the spaceship-disciplinarium or
 something like that.
 Past that one, the caves are fine I guess, but then the teleporter? It's
 a trap, as I had noted but the only problem is that Amonas is mind-wiped,
 and Hilderich a noob, but Philo? Why does he take everything in his stride?
 Perhaps part of being the watchful eye of Amonas, trying to see what he
 had in mind.
 Problem is that doesn't come acrosss well, not even later.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter - Fulcrum
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - A long and winding path
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A nice, wholesome section on Pilgrim and his journey.
 A bit pompous with the prose, the Pilgrim comes across as the deeply religious
 person, the zealot, the person that considers self-flaggelation is not
 beyond him.
 Overall, I like this part, though a bit heavy on the God reference.
 Perhaps more of the surrounding nature should have been described as a
 force on its own.
 In the end, I have a feeling the section's better than most.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Of the Sun and Moon
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is perhaps te granddaddy of what is problematic about the book.
 The whole teleport-into-the-inner-shell affair.
 Okay, I get the lush greenery, ample light and so on.
 Why no fauna? Perhaps the place is not that old.
 Okay, let's accept that.
 On the more pragmatic side, there's this duality with the suns and the
 sun.
 The references get mixed up.
 Sometimes they talk about the suns, as if the hadn't noticed it was just
 one.
 Sometimes they talk about the sun - I think.
 that crucial key difference is lost somewhere in the text.
 The reader, as well as the heroes, should definitely be puzzled at what
 they are actually seeing.
 there's a small get-out-of-jail clause, because of the apparent brightness
 of the binary (the two suns), which most of the time looks like a single
 sun (the orbit of the second one of the binary is too small).
 The problem is, the reader doesn't know about that, or that we are in Algol.
 I can only accept, that in good faith, he believes there's some explanation
 that he can either extrapolate (indeed he could, but I don't know how difficult
 it could prove), or that I can reveal later on.
 Though in the book, it's a messed up affair.
 Also, I have a porblem with the length or rather the slow action of the
 section, and the lack of development between the chars.
 They each seem to develop, but as an interior process, not through dialogue,
 at least not as much as i believe they should.
 About the jungle parts, I saw bear Gryll do worse stuff, so I'm happy with
 them mostly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Machina Segnis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Introducing poor Tyrpledge.
 I like the section, I like the dialogue, the intro, the buffoon Gomermont.
 Naturally, what I don't very much like is the affair aboutthe army and
 the structure of the Territories.
 I mean we got the bureaucrats - the ministers, the police - the procrastinators
, and we got the army, which is, the army.
 And seems to have little or no reason to perpetuate its existence.
 That shouldn't have been a problem, but I have indirectly stated that the
 last campaign that mattered was 25 years ago.
 I never indicate the political status with other countries and so on.
 We can only attribute the existence of the army to the machinations of
 the patriarch, eventually.
 My only problem is that that too, seems a bit too thin for comfort.
 Otherwise, the passage is A-OK ( I mean the problem is systemic, not in
 the passage itself).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - The longest errand
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The passage is okay and probably should have been joined with 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

the marble road
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 The problems in the passage rise from the tale of umberth.
 The black girl is supposedly one of Perconal's people (vat-grown, clones,
 however I might've explained that).
 She was probably a pilgrim.
 These folks happened upon her.
 She didn't want them to come along, they'd die from the auto defences.
 Okay, I get that.
 The real problem comes when Esphalon happens upon their island.
 Let's accept none were ever so lucky as him.
 The whole idea and mechanism is thin, so I don't think it's this passages
 fault.
 It does it's job adequately, the only problem being it did not have to
 exist on its own.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Part II - Per Ardua
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Wishes of the Unholy
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Circumstance and happenstance
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Probably my favorite section, dynamic entrance for the Patriarch.
 I find nothing wrong with it, in fact I could only hope the rest was like
 this one.
 The idea that the Patriarch is someone who can make you piss your pants,
 I like that.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - By the horns of the bull
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Lots of jungle, heat, and moisture.
 Lots of coconuts, mushrooms, the like.
 Supposedly character building.
 Not so much.
 Feels like I just had to delay them until the other plots went along.
 It should have been shorter (and actually tied in with the previous and
 the next jungle sections).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Meetings and Greetings
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Pilgrim meets Molo.
 It's okay, I won't ask why or how, perhaps it was God indeed.
 My main issue is not much happens other than introduce the desert a bit
 and make the linguisitc reference.
 Somehow I wish I could have iserted that all together into one chapter,
 Molo, Pilgrim and their meeting but I guess the woven style I chose could
 not do it, so there's bound to be some bs floating around here, but I guess
 it's flavorish for Pilgrim, mostly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Stirred Within
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Celia's main section.
 Mmm.
 Not much here, either for or against.
 Not sure about how she coes accross - vulnerable, loving, poweful, dynamic?
 She's supposed to be all these things, but the situation is weird so she
 keeps swapping moods like scarfs.
 At least that was the idea.
 Some of it I believe the reader receives, some of it not so much.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - A fool's resolve
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I like this one.
 Generally I like the army bits because they are so much more straightforward,
 having to do with the bureaucracy, the logistics, the preparations.
 It gives an insight into the workings of the government and the status
 of he army, as well as the problems it faces.
 Nice section, I'm not sure though if it makes the narration even more drawn
 out.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter - Breaking point
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Two steps beyond
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Well they finally reach the top and then the ball of fire comes along.
 The idea that somehow this is what they should be doing, just use whatever
 comes in their way suits me, as well as whoever send them there (the patriarch).
 But how normal would it be for someone to throw his self head on all that,
 especially someone with their background? It sounds a bit too thin, especially
 later on when hilderich says they can use the flaming ball.
 Other than that and the fact that Amonas suddenly yields so much authority
 to Hilderich, it's not good, but not that bad either.
 Just probably too long, and the reason why the chapter only has three sections.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Friend or foe
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Another lovely chapter with the patriarch.
 The key problem here is ursempyre, not so much why the patriarch decides
 to show everything to him, but why does he capitulate when he sees the
 flaming avatar? I mean, does he have to believe him? No, but it suits me.
 Will the reader be disappointed? Perhaps, but I've written worse stuff
 in here.
 This one is not as bad, the only possible problem being the suspension
 of disbelief: Do I achieve that? Do we awe and mesmerize the reader just
 like Ursempyre, perhaps more so? If yes, then it's ok.
 If no, then I still like the section, even though it has failed in its
 primary purpose (which is to realistically explain why the Patriarch's
 plan goes on like clockwork - and why Ursempyre grudgingly becomes a cog
 in the machine).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - All in good time
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Very nice first half, a bit thin about the executions for winegar and so
 on but that's ok I can live with that.
 Second part a bit thin as well, some of Tyrpledge's character shines some
 more, and then we get some useful news, like the march for Pyr.
 It's basically a filler, though I believe it's written in a way that we
 don't mind, something like a refreshing view of the world, and of Tyrpledge.
 A nice one.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Part III - Ad Veritas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter - The burial of the dead
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Memory and desire
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Memory and desire starts with saying out loud - there's just one sun.
 supposedly under the thick canopy and foliage of the jungle they couldn't
 have been sure.
 Let's accept that in good faith and carry on.
 Here a shitload of things happen, of which little can I find that does
 not resemble a badly written adventure game.
 We got a stone, and we're stuck someplace.
 Evidently, in order to progress, we have to use that stone.
 Period.
 No other way.
 Never think about something else for one second.
 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

If we needed something else, we could not have come here
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
 That's the basic problem.
 the patriarch needed them to go through that portal and into the inner
 shell and onto the pyramids, and inside them and so on, but what is their
 conviction based on? Suddnly, Hilderich is something between a genius and
 a mad prophet.
 The only far-fetched logic behind all this is because hilderich is actually
 the Patriarch's 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

son
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, and Amonas his 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

puppet
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 that they have somehow been fed the ideas and the logic and it is only
 now resurfacing.
 That hangs on a few lines of the patriarch towards the end, and the reader
 at this point can only wonder why does all this make sense? The idea that,
 let's just try this shit doesn't sound convincing.
 The reference to curatoria is dim and thin at best.
 Overall, this is the basic part that spoils the jungle for me, as well
 as the premise behind sending two guys that have no idea do the dirty work
 for you.
 The mechanism is a bit ridiculous.
 Having Hilderich break a couple of ribs and so on only serves as a mild
 distraction.
 The pyramid in itself and the way they are transferred is more of a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

let's do it in an easy fancy way that doesn't need too much description
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

..
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Overall, I think this is perhaps the most problematic part, along with perhaps
 the last one.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - A dead tree gives no shelter
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I believe this one is okay, alternating between Molo and the pilgrim, different
 takes on the same subjects, showing how molo eventually comes around to
 Pilgrim's views, only to be killed in the end (not this section though).
 Basically the contrast of feelings and thoughts, takes place in the Pilgrim's
 subplot.
 This sections does serve to further their journey but most importantly
 change Molo, and enhance Pilgrim's motives.
 The more time passes, the more fervent he becomes, surefooted.
 I have no problems about this one, unless from some linguistic references
 or signs etc.
 in the first part, supposedly there to enhance the story about esphalon
 etc.
 but not sure they have any lasting effect..They being saved from the storm
 is the best part.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Fear in a handful of dust
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Hear the prominent feature is the absence of the Castigator, as so plainly
 even Tyrpledge notices.
 The problem is that the castigator has been reduced to a puppet, that we
 do not even have some insight into, like the others.
 Adding more depth to te Castigator would cause more problems.
 Sidelining him as he is now is not what I'd fancy, but using him as a tool
 (in the same sense as the patriarch does) seems to work.
 Other than that, the section is okay, though perhaps I needed more depth
 concerning the siege.
 As ever, I find the patriarch great and wholesome.
 Even ursempyre is better pictured here, broken and retired.
 Overall, not a problematic section in my view.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - the Sleeping Man
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This section was primarily written in order to introduce us to the hub,
 the centron, and so on.
 Amonas' mind-bomb came as an afterthought and is indeed a hurried device.
 No mechanism is evident by which it works.
 Suffice it to say that there's something permeating the hub that is not
 evident (could be neutrinnos, for all I know too).
 So, leaving that aside, we don't get much insight into the centron, other
 than perhaps it is not as it was originally, and there seem to be many
 different generations or even civilizations of people that had lived there
 at some point..
 It does not look like a normal city, but rather like an installation.
 Overall, I think I don't delve as much into it as I should.
 Rather I focus on their thoughts, which at this point seem strange.
 I mean, they still don't know where they are, but they've been through
 beams and fireballs and shit, and they still take it in their stride.
 I tried to offset that by making them ficus on the task at hand, returning,
 finding their way out, learning where they are and so on, but I seem to
 have messed this up.
 Also, apart from the zombification of Amonas, I introduce Ron, the AI,
 which I find a bit too much, a humorous note that I wanted to add for a
 bit of color, but I don't know whether or not the timing was right.
 Anyway, I think the description of Ron is a bit dull and vague, and the
 large shaft was supposed to be a large launch tube or something similar
 but as it is now I've used it remotely like a parking lot for spaceships.
 Even so, the section does what it's supposed to do, only it leaves me with
 a sense of being half-finished.
 I've got better, but I've got worse as well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter - A game of chess
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - An unviolable voice
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Perhaps the best part of Pilgrim and Molo, after they meet the sandstorm
 head on and are saved miraculously, which was literally a random piece
 of luck, perceived though as a divine intervention by Molo, something that
 radically shifts his psyche and point of view, starkly contrasted against
 his 'masters' wishes.
 He became a pilgrim himself.
 I believe the transformation is nicely sorted out and the fact that the
 changed Molo dies is perhaps key to the psychological/philosophical argument
 I'm trying to make (which is , exactly?)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - A sermon of fire and blood
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 'prepare for release line' got me hooked, I don't know why.
 Anyway, I like this because of its climactic character and the almost final
 outspokenness of the Patriarch.
 The heart of why he's doing everything is in here, and the heart of why
 Ursempyre and the rest had no other chance but pawns is also hinted at.
 I like the professional Tyrpledge who even though worried about the future
 still clings on what seems for him to be the only way.
 Generally, one of the best sections.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - The game board
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I like the section, though I believe the main problem lies in the description
 of the 'workshop'/shipyard as well as the confrontation between the Patriarch
 and hilderich and ron - which is the major plot.
 Perhaps it's fine, perhaps it's not.
 I sided on the dumbstruck and completely caught by surprise part that leaves
 the both of them just listening to him.
 The fact that he spills the beans seemed logical if he had been denied
 victory for thousands of years.
 The frustration would have normally been unbearable.
 Other than that, it's kind of ignominious how Amonas exits the novel alltogethe
r like a puppet, and the player tank is kind of dull.
 Supposedly I wanted it to contrast itself with the tower/spaceship of Agrippa,
 which was modeled like a french aristocrat's study or something like that.
 Other than stylistic problems with that, the plot revealed in itself stands
 for a different discussion alltogether.
 I find it generally thin at best, but intriguing and marvellously sinister
 and long term.
 Something like that could happen and it's not just the limitation and the
 logic errors of the computer/AI, or the genetic markers, and the soil and
 the whole continent and so on, stuff that I should have made more room
 to further explain, perhaps from Perconals/The Waking Man's view.
 The problem is it's a hasty explanation, somethingthat perhaps indeed the
 patriarch could hav ewritten himself, bu the main problem lies in the fact
 that it's not very cohesive, and there seem to be holes riddled throughout..
 If one can take everything in good faith, in the same awestruck fashion
 as Hilderich, then it's fine, though I believe most will simply try and
 read through the mass of Patriarch's ramblings into the next pages, and
 perhaps shuffle back and forth when the book's done to try and make sense
 of it.
 A problematic section that though the heart of the plot connections, doesn't
 seem to carry them along as it should.
 Not the splashing near-ending I had in mind.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Section - Homeward
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I almost wrote this on the fly.
 I really wanted to put an ending to the story, and I had to cramm in together
 Celia and Perconal.
 Generally Celia pops out on various section, becuase I couldn't afford
 her more pages, but I think she's a nice secondary char.
 On to the problems with this one, is that the retired/almost given up Perconal/
Jester/Waking Man, seems strangely disaffected by everything and all around
 him.
 No explanation about his whereabouts before hand and afterwards, his part
 of the plan and so on.
 Generally not a very good picture of the adversary of the patriarch.
 The suddenness of the patriarch's swapping (which happened on the previous
 section but is now shown how it affected the real life world) and the ensuing
 'I'm done for, pop her in the life boat as a sorry-I-messed-your-world'
 is too hasty for comfort.
 Naturally that's the whole problem with the book, that it seems like it
 was cut short, or was too long where it shouldn't be, all in all that it
 was uneven.
 Same thing goes for the Pilgrim's 'John Rambo' style, though I can picture
 it in a different light, something like a retelling from an epic story
 or something like that.
 A distant view , where everything happened too quickly, and what really
 mattered was that God's plan, according to the Pilgrim had come through,
 and he had served his purpose, dying a contend man.
 In more technical terms, the first part is subpar, while the latter, even
 though short, is to the point and could be worse.
 In all, not a very fitting end.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Chapter Epilogue
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Along with Homeward, Epilogue carries some of the weight of what really
 happened (the world shattered and exploded), something which does not carry
 as much photographic momentum (I do not make so much an explicit reference
 and it is largely left to the imagination).
 Other than that, it's small, short, and tries to make an opening for the
 second book.
 Largely inconsequential though, parting with a tiny bit of humour.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
