#LyX 1.6.7 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 345
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass book
\use_default_options true
\language english
\inputencoding auto
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family sfdefault
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\paperorientation portrait
\paperwidth 10cm
\paperheight 14cm
\topmargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\defskip medskip
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle fancy
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\author "" 
\author "" 
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
The Depths of Truth 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
by Vasileios Kalabakas
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset CommandInset toc
LatexCommand tableofcontents

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
The Crash
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is the third day since we crashed at Toluk Valley.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am Lieutenant Zebadiah Forrester, 53rd Valkyrie Squadron on detachment
 from 3rd Colonial Battle group to Stratix colony, Thibadault system, Korpulu
 sector.
 I am writing this log, this journal, in the aftermath of the Protoss attack
 on New Fredricksberg.
 As far as I know, I'm the only surviving member of my squadron.
 My crewman died in the wreckage of our Valkyrie, and I accept total responsibil
ity for his death.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I keep telling myself I couldn't pull him out in time without killing myself
 in the process, but the fact remains he is dead and I'm alive, probably
 not for very long though.
 I am living on food and water rations, and the barren landscape of the
 northern regions here is as friendly as a Zerg.
 Precipitation is within the error margins and the only plant life I have
 encountered so far are mollusks and some kind of fungous algae already
 known to be lethally poisonous.
 I should have headed for the equator.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When the Protoss came in force, I was patrolling the area south of New Fredricks
berg, along with my wingman Paul Anacheim, God rest his soul.
 We picked up strong signals of a Zerg infestation and naturally we radioed
 in and maxed our 'burners further south, puzzling over how anyone had missed
 something that big on earlier sweeps.
 The rest of the squadron scrambled to the air and we regrouped for a reconnaiss
ance in force, delta wave formations, 2 mile separation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After we flew over the designated area it became clear we had been duped;
 there was nothing other than crag and tundra, a skin deep bassalt lakebed
 and instead of a Zerg hive a small artificial construct the size of a sensor
 array.
 A close fly-by revealed it to be a Protoss artifact and the signal probably
 came from a modified psi-beacon, a lure to draw the Valkyries away from
 the base, diminishing our defenses.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Their coordination was flawless.
 The exact moment we called in to warn New Fredricksberg, three Protoss
 Cruisers decloaked inside the defense perimeter, with no warning from the
 sensor arrays.
 Whether it was sabotage, incompetence or some new cloaking technology,
 it didn't matter.
 Before we lost contact HQ mentioned several attached units to the Cruiser
 fleet and ordered a withdrawal to the predesignated scattering points all
 over Stratix.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We chugged that order with the blink of an eye, and very soon we would have
 second and third thoughts about it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Upon entering the fray all we managed was to provide target practice for
 the Protoss task force.
 The turret defenses and walls had already been laid to waste allowing the
 Protoss to pour in and surgically strike our vehicle depots, crippling
 our ability to defend with any chance of success.
 We tried to take down the Cruisers, but their Scouts forced us into a dogfight
 we were never meant to survive.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Airspace was at a premium above New Fredrickberg, and the Valkyrie isn't
 exactly the nimblest instrument of death from above.
 We had lost the element of surprise, speed, and stand-off distance that
 made the Valkyrie infamously deadly.
 It did not go well at all.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We were taking heavy fire from multiple directions, with Dragoons, Scouts
 and the Cruisers' drones concentrating on our path.
 Formations, tactics and strategy became meaningless.
 Every twist and turn to avoid enemy fire just pitched us into some other
 target reticle.
 I saw some of our Valkyries fall like bricks from the sky without taking
 a single hit, probably because of some Arbiter.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Very aptly we lost cover, scattered, and became prey, hunted and put down
 by the Protoss' precise and coordinated salvos.
 Being herded and culled like sheep, my instincts kicked in and I did what
 every animal does in fear of death; I fled.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I diverted all energy to maximum thrust, shutdown weapons systems and trusted
 my pilot skills.
 In earnest, I crossed my fingers and prayed.
 Finding an opening throughout that maelstrom of plasma fire was next to
 impossible but a small gap presented itself and I hurried to take advantage,
 with Paul running on auxiliary power right behind me.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Fleeing the massacre, I caught a glimpse of a Thor behemoth surrounded by
 a cloud of Cruiser drones, being brought down like a bewildered giant,
 stung by bees, with Zealots biding their time around it like it was carrion
 fowl.
 I checked my scanner and the sky behind me.
 One after another my fellow pilots were being picked out like flees and
 sent hurtling down to the undeserved anonymity of 'battle casualties'.
 After a few minutes, we were the last ones still flying.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Amidst the chaos a lurking Scout angled in on me and caught me off-guard,
 unable to react, lock-on warnings buffeting the cockpit with waves of sound
 and light.
 Instinctively I placed my hand on the ejection handle while in that split
 second Paul having no weapons operational swung around and rammed that
 Scout at full thrust, forming a lava-like globule of ceramite and metal,
 spiraling down in a fiery waltz of deathly embrace.
 I watched them as they silently became a fiery blot on the tundra.
 I think I meant to cry out for Paul, but all I managed was to empty my
 stomach compulsively.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The shock of barely surviving the onslaught, perhaps the feeling of cowardice
 and inadequacy as well, had left me dazed and numb.
 I found myself flying aimlessly over the empty landscape of the Vysgard
 Region, grazing red turf, endless miles of tundra rushing past me, my mind
 blank, senses numb.
 I checked my sensors.
 Nothing followed.
 We had managed to stay alive for now.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Crewman Dowty called in the intercom, arousing me from my reverie, suggesting
 that we should at least try to contact the civilian lab complex in the
 north polar region, in order to sent word to Dominion Headquarters, while
 perhaps securing some form of passage from Stratix back to our Battle group
 or wherever else Command would deem best.
 If there was time and hope still left this was our only bet.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A few minutes after changing vector towards Scott's Landing the master caution
 alarm sounded and while I was trying to get readings off the holographic
 displays, everything went dead.
 I lost every single system on board and as far as I can tell nothing hit
 us, at least nothing I had ever seen or heard of before.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I threw the mechanical master switch on and tried to glide on actuators
 only, quickly scanning the ground for a suitable stretch of land to perform
 an emergency landing.
 I jettisoned every piece of ordnance and the energy core trying to save
 some weight and extend flight time but eventually I had to accept te fact
 we'd be going in hard.
 I fought with the controls and strained the Valkyrie to design limits but
 luck was not the order of the day and on our way down I flew through a
 maze of rocky spires that over-watched the intended landing site.
 I lost my left stabilizer and an engine core erupted in flames, the Valkyrie
 went into a hard leftward spin and the ejection system was crippled by
 the impact.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I just closed my eyes and braced for impact.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When I woke up it must've been because of the smell of ammonia from the
 coolant system that leaked all around my cockpit.
 I checked my extremities for injuries and sent a comm to Dowty who did
 not reply, so I unbuckled my harness and jumped out of the cockpit with
 a jolt to check up on him.
 The smell of ammonia turned into chemical fumes and the characteristically
 acrid one of red hot ceramite.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What remained of the Valkyrie would quickly become a smoldering hulk, the
 fire spreading relentlessly.
 Dowty was probably unconscious because of the fumes and a failed respirator
 unit, and every breath of his inched him closer to permanent brain damage
 and death.
 I tried to force his canopy open, but Dowty's cockpit compartment was deformed
 from the mechanical stresses of the impact.
 I emptied a clip from my auto-pistol trying to lodge it free, but to no
 avail.
 I tried to use some broken fuel line as a lever but it would not even budge.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My flight suit indicators flashed red for toxic/radioactive lethal materials
 in proximity.
 I had to get out of there but that meant I had to leave Dowty behind.
 I reassured myself there was nothing more I could do and decided in an
 instant to live with what I now know to be murder on my hands.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I grabbed my survival kit and comm unit and started off with a jogging pace
 towards the north.
 I did not stop for an hour and then I fell on my knees from exhaustion.
 I crawled under a rock outcropping that seemed to offer shelter from the
 harsh winds and cried myself to sleep, hugging my kit and praying that
 I would never wake up again.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When I did wake up, I checked my chronometer by force of habit and realized
 I had slept for more than a day.
 The sun was at high noon in the sky, and the rocks offered little shadow.
 I extrapolated my location relative to the crash site as accurately as
 possible and realized that if I kept a bristle walking pace I could arrive
 at the lab complex by nightfall.
 A more stealthy approach of moving only at night would keep me idle for
 many hours and I would only spend them brooding over everything.
 I decided to move hastily but with caution in mind.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Hours went by with no change in scenery; the arid tundra was an almost ashen
 pitch of white with a few red tufts of plant life.
 A few dirt mounds and small rock formations were not enough to help me
 get my bearings so for the most part I trudged along blindly and trusted
 my instincts.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I stopped only twice, once to rest my legs and have some rations, and once
 more when I came upon the remains of a Protoss Scout.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Unlike the Valkyrie, the Scout seemed unharmed; no signs of being fired
 upon, no catastrophic damage on its hull, only some minor impact damage.
 A successful emergency landing if I read the signs right.
 I approached the Scout warily, drawing my sidearm auto pistol and cautiously
 checking for signs of a trap.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nothing happened when I entered the unfamiliar cockpit of the Scout and
 scrounged for anything that might seem important or helpful.
 From the dirt railing on the ground this Scout seemed to have made a controlled
 landing while flying north.
 I could not understand why the Protoss pilot had not waited for a rescue
 mission.
 Instead it seemed he actually took off on the same vague direction as mine.
 It seemed to lack sense, but having realized I had tarried for too long,
 I picked up my pace once again.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As calculated, by nightfall I could plainly see the communications tower
 of Scott's Landing.
 Thankfully it appeared to be in one piece, unmolested insofar by the Protoss
 war machine.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the hazy backdrop Larrigan's Fall dominated the horizon, the kilometer
 wide and unfathomably deep chasm that had intrigued Sector Science Command
 to setup a research facility here in the first place.
 I had heard stories about how pilots, struck by cabin fever, flew races
 inside Larrigan's Fall, more for the exhilaration and adrenaline and less
 for the bets involved.
 Some even added to the extravagant scenery by literally carving themselves
 onto the rock.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once I finally approached Scott's Landing perimeter I noticed there was
 very little activity if any at all.
 No posted guards, no patrol vehicles, no busy personnel.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Perhaps there was a lock-down in place or they had already evacuated when
 the Protoss struck elsewhere.
 Perhaps they had been able to get communications working through the ionostatic
 interference that had kept me out of touch since the attack on New Fredricksber
g.
 Maybe the fleet is on its way.
 I still don't know.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I trudged along past search and rescue vehicles, SCVs, depots, drilling
 equipment and various stacks and heaps of materiel I was not entirely familiar
 with and reached an access shaft elevator that seemed locked.
 With a little luck and some tampering from my behalf I managed to get inside.
 I pushed to talk to someone in charge but I got only static.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A quick view on the reference map of the facility made me push for the command
 sector level but it seemed to be inaccessible.
 I just pushed for the first level right below, personnel quarters.
 Surely, I thought, I'd find some of the personnel, get briefed on the latest
 developments and evacuation plans.
 Perhaps even a warm meal and a hot bath before everything else.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I was soon disillusioned and the brief spell of feeling safe and secure
 was shattered.
 The elevator opened into a narrow and utilitarian metal passageway, badly
 lit by a phosphorescent grid ru nning all along the length of this corridor.
 With walls made from ceramite panels, forming standard design blocks row
 after row, I was reminded of our own barracks, though there was a different
 feeling about this place.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There were few or no smells, no sounds, no graffiti, no chipping on walls
 and surfaces.
 These quarters were brand new.
 But Scott's Landing had been in operation longer than New Fredricksberg.
 Maybe this level had been renovated but in wartime, out here, renovation
 was an euphimism for 'blowing up'.
 What is more important was that there was not a soul in sight, nowhere
 on the level.
 I searched every block and every room.
 All I found was a few wardrobes in disarray, and unfinished coffee cups
 in the cafeteria.
 Someone did leave in a hurry but I still don't know where to.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The long walk here and the blind search have made me groggy.
 I need sleep.
 I'll continue my search tomorrow, I think the Protoss have either been
 here before me or they will not be coming.
 I need to find what happened and more importantly, I need a way off-planet.
 I'll add any findings to this log.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After all the past misfortunes I hope for the best.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter
The Chasm
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I am Neramon, Dark Templar and Zeratul's former ally.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I found this journal on the body of the Terran named Zebadiah Forrester.
 I was not responsible for his gruesome death, and had I been able I would
 try and prevent it.
 Alas, I am also in peril and I fear the worst has yet to come.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I'll continue the telling Zebadiah started, because it seems this will be
 the only record of what has and will probably transpire, and his story
 so far is relevant to my mission here on the world of Stratix.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The downed Scout he encountered was mine, and indeed I was headed to this
 Terran facility when I lost control.
 The Terran Valkyrie and my Scout met the same fate due to the strange emanation
s that originated here, from Scott's Landing, known in our Scripture as
 Melenos.
 I did not wish for my rescue from Protoss forces; they are unaware of my
 work here, and for good reason.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I believe them to be tainted.
 I am searching for proof of that taint.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Patiently I watched as our forces were poised to strike on Stratix for reasons
 beyond explanation.
 The Terrans had no significant presence here, and the Zerg swarms have
 not yet despoiled this world.
 Yet, we prepared an assault of disproportionate strength, as if using a
 hammer to swat a fly.
 It did not sit well with me.
 I observed from the shadows, measuring our commanders, guessing at our
 intentions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
At first I found it distasteful to pry on my brothers as if they were so
 no more, but in the days that were to come the beast of corruption finally
 reared its hideous head.
 Some of the commanders assigned had taken part in infamous campaigns, some
 had not for even once tasted battle, and for some their ancestry was hidden,
 veritably erased, untraceable.
 I had the indications of a plot alien in origin, a scheme beyond the power
 play and intrigue of Protoss families and clans.
 I acted with vigilance, and using my psionic potency , melted in the shadows
 once again and stowed away inside the Carrier strike force to the Thibadault
 system.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Upon landing on Stratix, I felt a disturbing sense of uneasiness, a pulsating
 source of fearfully strong psionic emanations that I could not identify,
 and certainly could not ignore.
 While our forces prepared for the imminent attack on the small Terran outpost
 of New Fredrickberg, I focused on the energies that had assaulted me and
 located their very source, somewhere to the north.
 I knew where to search next.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As I subdued a Scout pilot, bending his will to my cause and taking his
 place, a search on the planetary map caused me to fixate on a single point,
 the giant rift of Melenos, an unmistakably unique feature on the surface
 of this world.
 When the first waves of Scouts were ordered into the air, I launched intent
 on flying north unnoticed for as long as possible, gathering as much informatio
n and proof and returning to the Protoss host as fast as possible, blending
 in again like the night wisps of Acheron.
 Intentions though are often misled.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Indeed when the massed might of our forces fell upon the Terrans, I was
 for an instant mesmerized in awe at the power we had unleashed at those
 wretched souls.
 It was truly shameful that so much power was put to such use, when our
 brothers elsewhere bled in agony and sorrow at the hands of the all-consuming
 Zerg.
 This was mischief and arrogance on a grand scale.
 I sympathize with the Terran Zebediah, in that it was indeed a massacre,
 madness in bloodied form.
 In the midst of the slaughter, I bitterly turned north while the mayhem
 below me occluded any stalking eyes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Within miles of the giant rift I noticed a Terran complex that had not been
 marked on any map I had seen and suddenly, as if passing through an invisible
 Arbiter field, I lost control of my Scout and plunged onto the surface
 of Stratix.
 Unable to fly properly I used my psi powers to safely glide to a landing.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The strain was tenuous, but I managed to land, though poorly.
 I lost no time in assesing the damage to the Scout since while this huge
 field remains in place I believe it impossible to use the craft again,
 even if it was flightworthy.
 Hurriedly I made good speed for the Terran structures and had soon lost
 the craft from sight.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
With my mind pondering the many unknowns and my psi-powers still ebbing,
 the hydralisks achieved total surprise.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first one leapt up in front of my path, only allowing me enough time
 to activate my shield.
 Zergs, here on Stratix! It pounced on my shield with vehement strikes of
 relentless fury, its nightmarish appearance filling my vision, blueish
 sparks and the smell of ozon filling my every breath.
 As I regained my composure and prepared to focus for a psi-blast, my senses
 warned of me two more assailants flanking me on each side.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Indeed, corrosive acid was being flung from these fast approaching instruments
 of terror, their chitinous armor brazen with a mock reflection of myself
 being cast in the red hue of the twin suns of Stratix.
 They proved themselves a bland way to test the mettle of a Dark Templar.
 With my shield quickly being depleted, I reached to my innermost depths
 and communed with the unfathomable energies of the cosmos, channeling forces
 that could drive simple minds to catatonia by their mere sight, and unleashed
 a blast of psychic power that stripped the Zerg of all life, their hive-connect
ed minds now become an inert mass of ooze, their limp husks a morbid reminder.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Overextending the reach of my powers in extremis had taken its toll on my
 physical stamina and endurance.
 With no other suitable place in the tundra devoid of natural shelter, I
 dug into the burrow of the Zerg and fell into a deep limbic trance, and
 dreamed not.
 The nightmares where yet to be seen, with my own eyes, in the flesh.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What I witnessed here on Scott's Landing makes every unimaginable horror
 trivial in comparison.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After having rested, my strength and spirit regained, I finally reached
 the Terran facility in the cover of darkness.
 For all intents and purposed it seemed abandoned.
 But my senses urged me to be wary, for the echoes of powerful malevolence
 were faint but unerringly true.
 Something primeval and evil lurks in this place, something unsettlingly
 familiar.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As I entered the lower levels of the complex, the feeling intensified.
 It became manifest with the body of the terran, and the lower I descended
 the more I found to unsettle me.
 The facade of the living quarters level was quickly put aside; it was a
 carefully staged ploy to dismiss the complex as having been evacuated recently
 and in a hurry, to fool stragglers and chance visitors to death, and perhaps
 worse.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Below the administration level, I saw what only Zeratul had encountered
 before; treachery and horror in a magnitude that shocks me still.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thousands of suspension tanks, carved in the depths of the rock cliffs shadowing
 Melenos that even myself considered myth .
 Hellish forms I could only sense by my psionic powers, not able to distinguish
 with my terror-filled eyes, eternally suspended in an emerald sanctuary,
 a sepulcher of the damned.
 Hosts of machinery, ducts and pipes provided for these slumbering minions
 of the armageddon that is yet to come.
 I could sense their purpose, their malignancy, carving a slow path to my
 very soul and essence, a calling card to welcome them forever, serve in
 obedience.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As I traversed row upon row of these monstrosities, I reached an edifice,
 a control block, a shrine, I could not tell.
 Upon it I saw, carved in crystal and set upon a slab made of bedrock, written
 in a form perhaps as ancient as the rock itself; 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Verse
“We are the Gift and the Bane, we are One and Many; we are become the Master,
 we are become Father.
 We are the Fulcrum and the Archon, we are the Mind and the Mother.
 We are Xel'Naga, we are Truth.”
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In that moment of revelation, my soul wavered and all hope seemed to abandon
 me.
 The Xel'Naga.
 But I remembered Zeratul and Tassadar; I remember still.
 Their path, alight with heavenly righteousness and hellish fury would be
 my unfaltering guide henceforth and unto my end.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I have finally seen the horrible truth I have sought for all my life.
 The search was long and winding, an arduous process, a feat of perseverance
 and determination.
 A feat I have almost come to regret.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The last few decades have spurred conflict and debate my people had not
 encountered for millenia.
 Most knowledge of the past has been forgotten and placed in the realm of
 mythos, fiction and stories as an educational past time, irrelevant to
 the reality that consumes us with its bleakness.
 Regrettably, I know this to be false.
 I have bathed in the sacred knowledge of our Scripture and have uncovered
 links and paths I am woe to traverse, but feel compelled and indeed obliged
 by fate and duty to follow to the very end.
 There is darkness in our past, but there are darker corners still waiting
 to be met, and Stratix is indeed a fulcrum, with our galaxy hanging in
 a precipitous, uneasy balance.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For decades I have toiled in our Libraries and Sanctums uncovering truths
 insofar unapproachable considered by most, if not all, taboo.
 Myths interwoven with facts and riddles to be solved, hampered my progress.
 Patiently I connected pieces of information, researching, visiting distant
 worlds and forgotten moons.
 I enlisted the help of Terrans with no prejudice of race or much affinity
 to the ethics of war - profit being their sole belief in the cosmos.
 I regret to have used some of my brothers as well, sometimes as decoys,
 other times as pawns, and ultimately as victims, but it was for a purpose
 that knows no compassion and leaves no soul unscathed.
 Finally, my sacrifices began to bear fruit.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I had evidence to believe that the conflict that had ravaged this sector
 of space and had pitted Terrans and Protoss against each other and their
 own, was no mere consequence of greed, hate and simple power lust.
 It had other, far darker origins, and far wider reaching implications.
 This war that has been raging on and on will have no victor.
 It will only end in fire and doom.
 Unless I can share the ultimate truth and lift the veil over our minds
 that has kept us tearing at each other's throat like rabid Zergs.
 So fitting.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
To think of the Zerg as a mindless scourge, a swarm that only seeks proliferatio
n, to treat them as animals without conscience or deeper purpose was a mistake
 we still regret, both Terrans and Protoss.
 The betrayed human, turned traitor herself, the terrible Kerrigan, now
 Queen of Blades.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How little we understood, how little we know even after all that has transpired
 and has been written on so many worlds, with so much blood, so much sacrifice.
 I shiver with fear and tremor with anger.
 I am not alien to these emotions.
 I believe these emotions have above all, kept me alive and driven me true
 in my endeavor so far.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Zerg are not enemies; they probably never have been anything else than
 puppets.
 They are weapons, tools, but who wields them so? Who unleashed them upon
 our worlds and brought destruction and the all-consuming fear of the swarm
 to every living soul? Who will live through these ravenous times?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We Dark Templars are known to use stealth and cunning to our advantage,
 bordering treachery and manipulation to achieve our goals.
 We remained hidden and secluded for millenia, before it was deemed necessary
 to reveal ourselves once more, to offer our aid and advice, lend a hand
 to our brothers and bridge a chasm so wide few of us believed it possible.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I'm afraid there are powers at be far more masterful in those arts than
 we could ever believe existed, and certainly not hidden in plain sight,
 occluding our eyes, hearts and minds as a wall of sleep.
 Mayhap Tassadar had broken that veil and had in his last moments known
 the real impact and meaning of his sacrifice.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The Xel'Naga are here; Not only on Stratix but on many worlds.
 And I believe they never left.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Their ruins, lore and artifacts were buried, forgotten, tabooed, and the
 Xel' Naga became a myth for scholars of little accolade, and thus they
 evaded our vigilance for too long.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For when Zeratul came upon the hybrid terror on Braxxis it was Samir Duran,
 a Xel' Naga agent that had schemed to create this monstrosity, biding his
 time, using resources impossible for a sole renegade Terran to acquire
 by accident or chance.
 I now know this was but a grain of sand compared to what I have encountered
 here.
 What of other worlds? What lies hidden and uncounted for? When will it
 awaken?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Whatever the reason, I have not met anyone else, friend or foe, for better
 or worse.
 I believe they are watching me, toying with me, inviting me to feed on
 my desire to know everything, starting with Melenos.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Melenos, the mythical Xel'Naga temple hidden deep down in the chasm of Larrigan'
s Fall, built on the edge of the planet's mantle, feeding on its raw energy,
 fueling a purpose so dark and sinister I myself refuse to accept as real.
 I need to see more.
 I need to know.
 I need to go to the very depths where the Xel'Naga await, even if it leads
 to nothing more than ridicule and death.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
I fear my powers and training will prove inadequate should I be discovered
 and fall prey to the likes of liars and traitorous mischievous beings of
 power ancient and malevolent such as the Xel'Naga.
 No matter; I am still Neramon, Protoss Dark Templar.
 It should suffice even if I fail.
 Others will follow, even if I am deemed a raving heretic and a mad apostate.
 So be it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Zebadiah had no inkling of all this, and only wished to die as a warrior
 should – fighting to their last breath, of their own free will.
 In that, we should hope that we are more alike with the Terrans than some
 would have us believe.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
My soul itches to know that there is hope for both our people, and as long
 as hope lasts, I shall never stop, I shall never falter in my stride.
 I, Neramon of Antioch, take this vow; I shall bring the Xel' Naga to the
 light, and will fight alongside any who will join me, be they Protoss,
 Terran or Zerg.
 The coming tide grows strong; Who will help me stem it?
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
